IT @ School is a project under the Department of Public Instruction, Kerala. IT in schools Its main objective is to lead activities to revise the study style based on. The main activities of the project are to provide teacher training, assist SCERT in the production of textbooks, teacher assistants, etc., and effective deployment of laptops, computers and other related equipment. IT The scheme is being implemented in more than 2738 schools under the Government of Kerala, including in Mahe, Lakshadweep and the Gulf, for the use of laptops and projectors for classes in addition to providing education up to secondary level.
Education wise Prof. U.R. The IT in Education - Vision 2010 guideline prepared by the mission headed by Rao was submitted to the Government of Kerala on 22 November 2000. In September 2001, the government issued an order incorporating IT in the school curriculum. The aim was to train teachers in all schools by utilizing their services to train teachers as master trainers. As early as 2001, the IT @ School project was launched with the training of 108 teachers as master trainers.
The first phase of the project started in 2002 and ended in 2005. In the first phase, more than 15 lakh students were given the opportunity to study computer. In addition, 25540 computer facilities have been installed in more than 2699 schools. Under the leadership of the IT @ School project, a number of activities are being carried out to bring about many positive changes in the field of education. Ensuring ICT infrastructure development in schools is also an important objective. The ultimate goal of making computer-aided equipment available in schools as needed is to make the learning and teaching process simpler, more fun and more effective.
Implemented virtual classrooms in schools using satellite facility. More computers and related equipment were made available in schools. The IT Practical Examination of SSLC was conducted in February 2005 using specially designed examination software. The IT @ School project was able to create its own GNU Linux version in collaboration with the Kerala IT Mission and the Free Software Foundation. The IT practical exam of SSLC in March 2008 was successfully conducted using completely free software.
As part of providing IT facilities to all government aided high schools, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary schools in the state, computers and peripherals worth Rs. 1 lakh per annum were provided for five years. All schools are provided with broadband internet facility, laptops and LCD projectors.
The IT @ School project seeks to make the administrative functions of the Department of Education fully online, such as the luncheon program, relocation of teachers and primary teachers, the Comprehensive Fitness Program, the distribution of textbooks, and the selection of those eligible for minority scholarships. Implemented single window system to make higher secondary admission transparent and efficient.
The IT @ School project has been able to facilitate e-governance for all departments under the State Government.
In August 2017, IT @ School Project became a company under the Kerala Department of Education. Since then, it has been known as the Battle of the Kite.
Main article: Kite
http://www.itquiz.in/
Main article: SchoolWiki Wikisource includes information on all schools in Kerala. സ്കൂൾ SchoolWiki is a school development project. This website is published to collect and share students' creative work and tutorial information prepared by teachers. SchoolWiki is a media wiki created by the Wikimedia Foundation. 2015 State IT Images from the fair's digital painting competition are now used on the home page.
Executive Director: K.S. Anwar Sadat

This education-related article is a stub. Help develop this.
