Abul Fazl, a member of his congregation and friend, wrote in Persian about the reign of Akbar, the third Mughal emperor. Fazal wrote this three-volume history at the behest of Akbar. The first volume describes Akbar's predecessors, their rule, and Akbar's birth, while the second volume deals with important events during his reign. The second part contains a detailed account of the historical events up to the 46th year of Akbar's rule. The third volume, Ain e Akbari, stands apart from the rest. It gives detailed statistics on the Mughal Empire in the sixteenth century, as well as its military structure, governance and social conditions.
The name Akbarnama means the Book of Akbar. The author is one of the gems of the Church of Abul Fazl Akbar. It took about seven years to complete the book. The original manuscript also contained several images validating the articles. These are paintings that represent Mughal painting.
This manuscript was edited five times by Abul Fazl and submitted to Akbar in 1598. However, the third part was dedicated to the emperor in 1593 by Ayn Akbari.
Akbarnama is also a repository of Mughal painting. Many expert painters from Persia and India - both Hindus and Muslims - have contributed to its composition. The names of many famous painters such as Ustad Miskin, Farooq, Mir Syed Ali, Khwaja Abdus Samad, Dashwant, Baswan, Keshu, Lal, Mukund, Madho and Sarwan can be seen in the paintings. Some of the paintings were composed by multiple artists. Many have been involved in drawing the contours, one in the color, and the background in the third. The style is composed of bright colors - mainly red, yellow, and blue.
Akbarnama's 117 paintings are now housed in the Victoria & Albert Museum in South Kensington, and a few others in the British Museum.
The third volume, Ain e Akbari, describes Akbar's rule, family life, army, tax collection, and the geography of the empire.
This volume is notable for its statistics on the life of the people of India at that time and on the culture and customs of the people in various fields such as food crops, agricultural production, prices, wages and taxes.

