Attitudes and policies that show intolerance and violence towards foreigners, foreigners, or religious, cultural, or ethnic minorities within one's own nation. Although nationalism and nationalism are used interchangeably in English to mean nationalism and nationalism in Malayalam, the word nation is not commonly used. Therefore, in English, the word 'state' is used here and the word 'country' is used here.
Although the terms nation-state and nationalism are commonplace today, they dominated political discourse and diplomacy in Europe in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. This historical phenomenon was triggered by the collapse of the Holy Roman Empire, the Astro-Hungarian Empire, and the subsequent emergence of the nation-states, which were divided into several smaller parts, Germany and Italy. The internal impetus for this political phenomenon was the breakdown of the old colonial system to prepare the conditions for the new capitalist powers to grow voluntarily following the Industrial Revolution. Thus nationalism was a factor in the leap into the modernity of Europe. Nationalism was also the ideological basis for the emerging agitations in Asia and Africa against Western imperialism. This nationalism, which gave impetus to human progress, can be described as liberal or popular.
Factors such as language, history, heritage, culture and religion are considered separately or together as the basis of national consciousness. However, it is more accurate to say that the nation-state and its ideological basis, nationalism, is a political community or political community formed by history, as all these non-diverse nations are now very rare. The modern nation-state is a political society bound by an attitude of emphasis on collective nation-building and equally undesirable border development efforts, driven by common life experience. The British thinker Benedict Anderson defined nation-state as an imaginary political society. After World War I, in 1919, the delegates of 42 nations met in Paris and established the League of Nations, or Allied Powers, to recognize future nations and nations as independent sovereign political entities, in order to avoid future wars and to establish lasting peace. It can then be said that this understanding of nationalism and nationalism has become well-established in the international arena.
Violent nationalism is quite different and perhaps the exact opposite of this popular or liberal nationalism. Some scholars refer to it as integral nationalism, as opposed to liberal nationalism. There are some other terms in common that refer to this violent nationalism: chauvinism, ginkgo, and xenophobia are synonymous, but in effect anti-Semitism and fundamentalism, which carry out the same functions, can be considered in this sense.
The word is derived from the Frenchman Nicolas Schwartz, who refers to excessive patriotism, which is a mixture of intolerance and violence, and consequently hatred of other nations and different minds in one's own country. Shovin, a soldier under Napoleon Bonaparte, was wounded seventeen times in the wars of aggression led by Napoleon, but his loyalty to his emperor and nation continued unabated.
The term originated in Britain in 1878 under Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, and was derived from a popular double standard used to propagate the idea of ​​deploying troops to resolve the Balkan crisis. At the root of this sentiment is violent national ambition and contempt for others.
The term is derived from the Greek word xenon, which can be translated as stranger or stranger. Phobia means fear and hatred. Xenophobia is a hostile attitude toward strangers and foreigners.
The fundamentalist tendency that began in the early 20th century has now spread to most religions, with some Protestant clergymen in the United States ignoring the meaning of the Scriptures and arguing that the distribution of knowledge and education should be based on ancient myths and prejudices. This trend is the ideological basis of Muslim terrorist movements such as Al-Qaeda. Fundamentalists among the Hindu majority Indian religion rely on fundamentalism and revolt against minorities such as Muslims. The Taliban in Afghanistan is a model of fundamentalist political tendencies. Muslim fundamentalists call on Hamas to respond to Jewish fundamentalism's atrocities against Arabs in Palestine.
Anti-Semitism is the attitude of orthodox Christian fanatics in the West, who for millennia believed that the Jews were the ones who crucified Christ and treated them with enmity. Arabs, Jews and their languages ​​have been described as Semitic. Traditional anti-Semitic hatred in Europe culminated in the rise of Nazism in Germany and Fascism in Italy in the 1920s, and Jews were subjected to mass persecution and massacres. Here racism or violent nationalism is combined. Nazi or National Socialist leader Adolf Hitler and others theorized that the real Germans were Aryans of noble descent and the Jews were anti-Aryan subordinates.
As described above, violent nationalism has a long history, but in the 21st century its main theorists and practitioners are neo-Nazis, neo-fascists, fundamentalists and terrorist groups of various denominations. When the war was declared against Iraq in 2002, the U.S. declared it a new crusade. President George W. Bush's statement was later corrected, but it also reflects the fact that Sept. 2001. Violent nationalism is also echoed in Osama bin Laden's al - Qaeda declarations that carried out the terrorist attacks on the United States on the 11th. 1992 d in India. Cultural nationalism, or cultural nationalism, which Hindutva advocates are based on the actions that led to the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya on the 6th, is also a form of violent nationalism.
Another form of violent nationalism is regional separatist movements in organized nations. It should not be forgotten that these separatist movements are driven by legitimate cultural minority interests, neglect by central governments in economic development and dissatisfaction with unequal development. It is therefore undeniable that such minority local groups should be given as much autonomy and development facilities as possible. Among those thus neglected are tribals from different countries. These include the aborigines of India, the Red Indians of Latin America, and the Baloch of Pakistan. Tamils ​​in Sri Lanka are another example.
Thus, the movements instigated by power-hungry political leaders in the name of just rights and so on are emerging in many places as violent nationalism. While the Tamil issue in Sri Lanka, the Bass dispute in Spain, Chechnya in Russia and Karen in Myanmar are examples of nationalism that has turned violent, national sentiments in Britain, Wales and Scotland that have not yet turned violent are examples. This trend has become violent in many countries in Africa where tribalism is not very high. The secession of Eritrea from Ethiopia, the partition of Rwanda and Burundi, the Biafra uprising in Nigeria, and the split of Czechoslovakia; An example is the ongoing conflict in the Balkans following the collapse of the former Yugoslavia. The struggle for a Kurdish state in the Middle East, scattered in Iraq and Turkey, and the Uzbek and Pushto disputes in Afghanistan are all outbursts of this trend.
Although India has slowed down somewhat by the beginning of the first decade of the 20th century, India is not entirely free from the separatist forms of violent nationalism. Separatism erupted in Jammu and Kashmir, Nagaland and Tamil Nadu in the first decade after independence. EV was the parent organization of various Dravidian parties today for Dravida. The Dravidian ideology of Ramaswamy Naicker was argued until the 1960s but now the movement is stagnant. It is now confined to opposition to the declaration of Hindi as the national language. In Jammu and Kashmir, separatism still exists to some extent. Although Nagaland separatism weakened with the formation of the Nagaland state, some tribal groups, such as the Bodo, have intensified their separatist activities. Separatists are also active in Manipur.
In the last days of the freedom struggle, when the Muslim League raised the issue of two-state ideology and activated the Pakistan issue, Sikh organizations such as the Akali Dal, which was based in Punjab, raised their voices for an independent Sikh state. Their concept of an independent nation was known as Punjab Suba. Sikh independence faded as Punjab was divided into East and West as part of the Partition of India, with horrific massacres, bloodshed and refugee flows. However, in the aftermath of the Emergency, Sikh extremism intensified under the leadership of Bhindranwale and as the Golden Temple at Amritsar became Bhindranwale's headquarters and armory, violent nationalism re-emerged. Although Bhindranwale was killed and the temple liberated during Operation Bluestar led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, terrorist groups for an independent Sikh nation spread throughout Punjab. It began to unravel in the 1990s. However, the northwestern and northeastern regions of India have not been completely free of this disease.
