It is as a result of years of intense struggle that Bangladeshi women have been able to achieve at least their present dignity. Bangladesh's independence in 1971 was a great achievement for women there. During the last four decades of Bangladesh's existence, women have been politically empowered. Women were able to get better jobs. They had better educational opportunities and new strong laws were enacted to protect their rights. As of 2013, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, the Speaker of Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are all women. The achievements of women in this country are unmatched by any other nation.
In Bangladesh, the literacy rate for women is much lower than for men. As of 2012, the literacy rate for women is the same as for men. This is the number of women aged 15 and above.
The literacy rate of women in Bangladesh has been on the rise over the past decades. Its education policy has undergone many changes. This change has led to girls' access to schools closer to their homes. Enrollment of girls in schools has increased in the 1990s. The ratio of boys to girls in primary and secondary schools is almost the same. But beyond that, the number of girls at the secondary level is declining significantly. They seem to be dropping out of school.
Women are employed in most jobs in Bangladesh. They do everything from housework to paid work. But men are less likely to value their service.
Inheritance is inferior to that of Bangladeshi women. Discriminatory legal systems and patriarchal social norms make it difficult for women to acquire property. They have only limited property acquisition as a result of local interpretation of Sharia law. Most women inherit according to the local interpretations of Sharia Law.
Women belonging to the Chakma or Jumma tribe, both Buddhists and Hindus living in the Chittagong Hills, have been reportedly raped by Bengali invaders and the military. Their places of worship are also said to be destroyed.
Bangladesh has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world. Dowry casts a shadow over such marriages, even when they are criminal. 29% of Bangladeshi girls get married before the age of 15. It is estimated that 65% of girls get married before the age of 18. The government's intervention has had the opposite effect. The government itself, which vowed to completely abolish child marriage in Bangladesh in 2041, tried to raise the age of marriage from 18 to 16 in 2015. The same government also introduced a law that allows marriage at the age of 16 with the consent of the parents.
Bangladeshi women form up a rally at the first anniversary of Bengali Language Movement in Dhaka University in 1953.
url = http: //www.dol.gov/ilab/media/reports/iclp/sweat/bangladesh.htm
International Women's Day rally in Dhaka.
Bangladeshi girl cadets in Feni Girls Cadet College.
Bangladeshi women at Whitechapel, London. United Kingdom is home to one of the largest Bangladeshi communities outside Bangladesh and the largest outside Asia.
Female members of a Bangladeshi family seen at Jabal al-Noor, Makkah, Saudi Arabia. 3.5 million Bangladeshis in Saudi Arabia, mostly migrant workers and their family members in some cases, make up the largest Bangladeshi population outside Bangladesh.
Bangladeshi women of the hill tracts.
A Bangladeshi woman participating in Durga Puja.
Bangladeshi women undergoing an adult education program by Bangladesh Youth Leadership Center.
This article or section needs sources or references that appear in credible, third-party publications.
