Silver or silver is a soft, white, shiny metal. It is one of the transition elements in the periodic table. The atomic number of silver is 47. Character: Ag. Of all the metals, silver has the highest thermal conductivity. In nature, it is found not only in mineral form but also independently. Silver is used in the manufacture of coins, jewelry, spoons, utensils, and mirrors, as well as in photography.	
Silver is a very delicate metal that is easy to strike and stretch. It is the best thermal conductor of metals. Although a better conductor than copper, copper itself is used as an electric wire because it is more expensive than copper. It is also the metal with the highest light reflection. However, silver reflects very little ultraviolet light. Silver halides, which are compounds of silver, are sensitive to light. Although silver exists in fresh air and water, it can be damaged by ozone, hydrogen sulfide, and sulfur-containing air. The most common oxidation level of silver is +1. Some other compounds exhibit +2- and +3-oxide, potassium tetrafluoroagenate (K), and rarely +4- - Cs2).
Silver is a precious metal. Silver compounds such as silver nitrate and silver halide are widely used in the field of photography for coating films and newspapers. This is the important use of silver. Other uses include:
Ag is derived from the Latin word argentum, which means silver. The English name silver is derived from the Turkish language. This metal has a very ancient history. It is mentioned in the book of Genesis itself. And silver fossils from Asia Minor and the islands of the Aegean Sea. It is thought to have been used separately from black lead as early as 4000 years ago. It has been used for thousands of years in the manufacture and trade of jewelry and utensils and as currency. Silver is the second most precious metal after gold. But in ancient Egypt and medieval Europe it was worth more than gold. Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 pieces of silver.
Silver is associated with the moon and the sea in various myths. Alchemists gave silver the name Luna, meaning moon. An alchemical symbol of silver is the crescent moon. Moon and silver are associated with many Indian languages ​​and Malayalam. The expression 'Vellithingal' in Malayalam is an example of this. In Hindi, Chandi is used for silver.
It was initially thought that rasa had something to do with silver. This history refers to the Latin name of the juice, Hydrogyram, which means liquid silver, and the English name Quicksilver.
Silver is found naturally in ores such as argentine and horn silver, mixed with elements such as sulfur, arsenic, antimony, and chlorine. 
Mexico is the largest producer of silver in the world. 

This chemistry article is a stub. Help develop this.
