Coordinates: 25 ° 16′55 ″ N 82 ° 57′23 ″ E / 25.282 ° N 82.9563 ° E / 25.282; 82.9563
Varanasi (also known as Banaras) and Kashi) is a city located in the state of Uttar Pradesh on the west bank of the river Ganga for more than 6 km. It is considered by Hindus, Buddhists and Jains to be one of the oldest cities in the world. 1200 BCE It is believed that the city has existed here since time immemorial. Kashi is located on the trident of Lord Shiva, one of the Hindu trinities. Kashi also means bright. It is said that Kashi was enlightened by the presence of scholars and sages. Varanasi is said to be located on the banks of the Ganges, between the rivers Varuna and Assi, which flow into the Ganges.
Varanasi is one of the most important Hindu holy places. There are many temples in Varanasi ranging from ancient stone temples to modern ones. The early city here was almost completely destroyed during the invasion and conquest by various Muslims throughout northern and northern India. Opposition to idolatry by Muslims is believed to be the cause of this massive destruction. Therefore, most of the present day temples in Varanasi were built during the Maratha period in the late 18th century.
Sarees woven by the locals of Varanasi are very popular. Local wrestling is another attraction here
There are references to Kashi in the Rig Veda. Kashi also means bright. It is said that Kashi was enlightened by the presence of scholars and sages. Varanasi is said to be located on the banks of the river Ganges, between the rivers Varuna and Assi, which flow into the river.
Varanasi is one of the most important Hindu holy places. There are many temples in Varanasi ranging from ancient stone temples to modern ones. The early city of northern India was almost completely destroyed during various wars. Opposition to idolatry is thought to be the cause of this massive destruction. Therefore, most of the present day temples in Varanasi were built during the Maratha period in the late 18th century.
Sarees woven by the locals of Varanasi are very popular. Local wrestling is another attraction here.
Kashi is also known as the city of Lord Shiva. Kashi Vishwanath Temple, a Shiva temple, is one of the most important temples and a pilgrimage center.
Here stone steps are built on the banks of the river Ganga. These are called ghats. People bathe on these steps before visiting the temple. The cremation of dead Hindus is also done in such steps. The ashes then flow into the Ganges. Some ghats also have specialties. It is believed that in one of these Brahma sacrificed ten horses and in the other Parvati lost her earring.
It is believed that the real Shivalingam is located in the Jnanakinar near the temple.
Religious festivals are very important here. About 400 festivals are celebrated here every year. Shivratri is the most important festival. On this day, the devotees fast all day and anoint the idol of Lord Shiva in the temple with milk, betel nut and Ganga water. At night they sing songs and march.
Varanasi is an ancient center of Hindu learning. Students from all over the world come here to study at the Hindu University.
 Agra · Ahmedabad · Agra · Golden · Asansol · es · Bhopal · Chennai · Coimbatore · Delhi · Faridabad · Hyderabad · indoor · Jabalpur · Jaipur · Jamshedpur · Kanpur · Kochi · Kolkata · Lucknow · Ludhiana · The Directorate · Meerut · Mumbai · Nagpur · Navi Mumbai Patna Pune Pune Rajkot Surat Thane Vadodara Varanasi Vijayawada Vijayawada 
