Atal Bihari Vajpayee (December 25, 1924 - August 16, 2018) was the 10th Prime Minister of India. He was born on December 25, 1924 in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh. A senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, he has been the Prime Minister of India three times. On May 16, 1996, the first Prime Minister resigned 13 days after taking office. He returned to power in 1998, but was ousted in 1999. I. A. D. M. K could not survive the vote of confidence that followed the withdrawal of support. In the 1999 general elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA won a majority and became the Prime Minister again. He remained in office until the 2004 general election. Vajpayee is the first leader after Jawaharlal Nehru to become the Prime Minister twice in a row. The Pokhran nuclear test, the Kargil war and the 2001 parliamentary attack took place during Vajpayee's rule. Atal Bihari Vajpayee is the fifth Prime Minister to be honored by the country with the highest honor, the Bharat Ratna. Vajpayee, who had been undergoing treatment for a long time due to a bladder infection and kidney related ailments, passed away at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi on August 16, 2018 at 5.05 pm.
Vajpayee was born on December 25, 1924, the son of Krishna Devi and Krishna Bihari Vajpayee, to a middle class Brahmin family who migrated from Uttar Pradesh to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. He graduated from Victoria College, Gwalior with distinction in Sanskrit, Hindi and English. He also graduated from college with a first class degree in politics.
Entering national politics through the Quit India Movement of 1942, Vajpayee was instrumental in shaping many of the policies of independent India, both domestic and foreign. He was one of the founding leaders of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951 and later of the Janata Party in 1977-80. When the Janata Party led by Morarji Desai resigned from the ministry in 1979, it formed a new organization, the Bharatiya Janata Party, along with some other leaders. He was the President of the Bharatiya Janata Party from 1980-86.
He has been elected to the Lok Sabha nine times and to the Rajya Sabha twice since the Second Lok Sabha in 1957. This is an achievement that only Vajpayee can claim. He was a member of several committees of Parliament.
Vajpayee was the External Affairs Minister in the 1977 Janata Party cabinet headed by Morarji Desai.
Gained fame as a lecturer and poet. At a rally in Mumbai in December 2005, Vajpayee announced his retirement from active politics. He died on August 16, 2018 after suffering from dementia and disability since 2009.
Vajpayee served as the Prime Minister of India three times from 1996 to 2004.
When he was elected as the largest single party in the 1996 general election, the then President Shankar Dayal Sharma defeated BJP. P. Vajpayee, the leader of the parliamentary party, was invited to form the cabinet. Vajpayee was sworn in as the 11th Prime Minister of India on May 16. He resigned thirteen days later when he could not get the support of other parties to get a majority in the Lok Sabha.
The Lok Sabha was dissolved in 1998 and re-elected due to the collapse of two United Front ministries without a sufficient majority. In this election too, the BJP was elected as the largest single party. The BJP, along with other parties, was able to form a front called the National Democratic Alliance. Vajpayee was sworn in as Prime Minister again. In a subsequent vote of confidence, the NDA proved a simple majority. But the cabinet had a lifespan of only thirteen months. A. who was under constant pressure. I. A. D. M. K. The Vajpayee cabinet, which lost a simple majority when it left the front after failing to reach a compromise with the BJP, lost by a vote of confidence. The Lok Sabha was dissolved and re-elected as none of the opposition parties had a majority to form a cabinet. Vajpayee's cabinet remained a caretaker cabinet until the election.
The National Democratic Alliance, which won 303 seats in the 1999 general election, won a two-thirds majority in the Lok Sabha. Vajpayee was sworn in as Prime Minister on October 13, 1999, becoming the first non-Congress cabinet to complete a five-year term with a clear majority.
The. Radhakrishnan c. Rajagopalachari · C.V. Raman Bhagwan Das Visvesvaraya Jawaharlal Nehru GB Ball · D.K. Curve .സി. B.C. Roy Purushottam Das Tandon Dr. Rajendra Prasad · Dr. Zakir Hussain, Pandurang Waman Khan, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, VV Giri · K. Kamaraj തെ Mother Teresa Acharya Vinobhabhave Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan .ജി MG Ramachandran · B.R. Ambedkar, Nelson Mandela, Rajiv Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Morarji Desai, Abul Kalam Azad, JRD Tata Satyajit Ray APJ Abdul Kalam Gulzarilal Nandan Aruna Asaf Ali MS. Subbalakshmi ദം Chidambaram Subramaniam · Jayaprakash Narayan Pandit Ravi Shankar · Amartya Sen · Gopinath Bordoloi താ Lata Mangeshkar · Bismillah Khan ീം Bhimsen Joshi CNR Rao, Sachin Tendulkar, AB Vajpayee Madan Mohan Malaviya Bhupan Hazarika Pranab Mukherjee Nanaji Deshmukh
This biographical article is a stub. Please help improve this article or section by expanding it.
