Chicago is the largest city in the United States, the third most populous city in the United States, and the most populous city in the Midwestern United States. The population was 27 million at the 2010 census. The city of Chicago is commonly known as the "City of the Wind." Also known as "Chicagoland", Chicago's metropolitan area extends to the nearby states of Indiana and Wisconsin. With a population of 98 million in the United States, it is the third largest metropolitan area after New York City and Los Angeles. DuPage County is also part of the city of Chicago, the headquarters of Cook County.
Chicago was founded in 1833 as a port city on the southwest shores of Lake Michigan.
The name "Chicago" is derived from the French pronunciation of the Red Indian word "Chicova" meaning "wild garlic" or "wild garlic". The earliest known manuscript for the name Chicago is a memoir written by Robert de Lassell in 1679, referring to the city as "Checagou". Later, in 1688, Henry Schottel wrote in his notes that the area was rich in wild boar named Chicagova.
Boeing has been headquartered in Chicago since 2001. Other major companies headquartered in and around the city include McDonald's and Motorola.
The city has a population of 36.39% black and 31.32% white. Chicago has the third largest Indian population in the United States, behind New York and San Francisco.
Mayor Richard M. Daly is a member of the Democratic Party. No Democrat has been elected mayor since 1927, with a majority in the Democratic Party.
The major universities are the University of Chicago and the Northwestern University. 
The Port of Chicago is one of the most important ports in the world. -The Chicago Transit‌ Authority operates metro rail that connects the city and its environs.
Interstate I90, I94, I57, I55, I80 and I88 pass through the city and its environs. 
O'Hare Airport is one of the busiest airports in the world, located northwest of the city and Midway Airport in the south. Air India's Mumbai and Delhi services depart from O'Hare.
