Fasting is the spiritual path in Islam. The word literally means series, path, path, method. It is in this way that the journey to Sufism begins, and the fast is intertwined with the Sufis, the Muslim spiritualists.
Fasting can be described as a means of worship consisting of rituals that are designed to bring one closer to God. The fasts known by the respective founding spiritual masters are the means by which the famous Sufi monks practiced, trained, and organized for the disciples to purify the soul. Although Sufis claim that mining from the Qur'an and the actions of the Prophet is the source of all practices, neo-pagan Muslims view it as a non-religious act.
The oldest form of practice is the Uwaisiya series, a practice of the spiritual sage Uwais al - Qarni, who lived in Yemen during the time of the Prophet Muhammad. Later, Hassania Basr, Dunnoor Misri, and Junaid al-Baghdadi, as well as Hassania Junaidiya, became famous. Sub-practice methods were later formed along with the thoughts of each teacher. Each theorem is known as a fraternal organization. Although the worship practices of all sects differ, the basic source of all methods is the practice of early Sufi sages such as Uwais al-Qarni and Hassan al-Baswari Junaid al-Baghdadi.
In the same way the silsilas of each method will be different but the meeting place will be Muhammad. While the majority of the series passes through Ali, a few pass through Abubaker and Salmanul Farisi. Although over a thousand such series of practices and sub-practices have been born over the centuries, only about 100 practices are still active today. Forty of them are widely popular. Khwaja Mu'inuddin Chishti, Abdul Qadir Geelani, Bahauddin Naqshband Bukhari, and Abu Najb Suhrawardy are some of the most important Sufi saints today.
The journey to haste must begin after one has fully adhered to the rules of Islamic law, Sharia, and gained knowledge in fiqh. For this, the spiritual seeker has to find a guru with a sanad. These gurus are known as Murabbi and Murshid. They are considered to be masters of any of the sadhakas or those who have completed the sadhaka training received in Ijaziyat from them. Most of these gurus are the authorities of the Sufi monasteries known as Saviya / Takiya / Ribat / Khankhah. Such series are referred to as istikhama. Apart from this, there are also Sufi gurus in the style of Sayyidutwa Ifat. This second group of gurus are the late greats. Only by mastering the Sufi order can one enter the ranks of such gurus.
Those who achieve childhood under gurus are called Mubtadi. If he succeeds in training, he will become a Muthadarij and he will enter the path of practice as a disciple. The process of Tasqiyah, Tarbiyyah and Zuluqah begins with the giving of thanksgiving and the wearing of khirka as a vird to the Shaykh by placing his hand on his chest, hugging him or whispering in his ear. With this, the responsibility of cultivating the disciple rests with the Guru. The rule is that the disciple, like a body, must be submissive to the Guru or the executor appointed by the Guru. In the training college, Mureed, Salik, Majdoob and Muthadarak will be promoted to the rank of Disciple Guru respectively.
Sufis define Shari'ah as external purification and Twareeqah as internal purification. The Sufis describe external purification as the beginning of the journey. Acharyas describe
The end of this love journey is in Haqeeqat. Call it the Assyrian Fillah. At the end of Haqiqah, the traveler will have to overcome various hysterical conditions. The final stage of such halls is called Fana. Sufis in a state of insanity are also referred to as majdoob. Very few spiritual seekers will reach all these stages. Thus those who are free from the state of mania of Fana will be even fewer. The last place in the haste is to attain the transcendental wisdom of Marifat after Fana. Once this is achieved then the status quo will continue to increase as a result of the activities. Az-Zair's Illallah is coming to an end.
According to the technical usage of the Sufis, those with Shariah status are referred to as 'Talibeen' seekers, those with Twareeq status as 'Sa Ireen' and those with Haqiqat status as 'Waswilin'.
Ritib,], Aurad, Dhikr Halqas, Darood, and Meditations are common to all the Theravikas. At first glance these may seem similar, but the rituals and the thanksgiving and the manner in which they are recited will be different. In between such ceremonies there will be Twarab Naswa Ghaiba and movements like forgetting the surroundings of Rakhsw. If the Moulaviyya Darwish are roaming, they are moving in the Shaduliya way. The development of musical instruments such as the rabab, the oud, the sitar, the bulbul, the shahibaja, the daf and the arabana also grew as part of some of the accelerations.
Sufi sects that do not follow the series and do not follow the Shari'ah are called false theology. The main allegation is that such people follow the cults of different religions and try to gain spiritual experience through intoxication, drinking of wine or drugs.
Quickness is the purification of the heart from human evils 
Under a high Arif, haste is to let go of the contradictory things externally and internally and to obey the divine commandments to the best of one's ability. 
Ilm, amal, liberation from vices, and healing with virtues are the basis of haste. 
In the haste, one can transcend ranks and maqams and hold fast to the things that bring you closer to God and piety. 
