
Synonyms from theplantlist.org
Rambutan is a fruit found in Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Southeast Asia. This result is similar to that of lychee and longan. Native to the Malay Archipelago, the fruit derives its name from the Malay word rambut, meaning Romanibidum. This is because of the abundance of fibers found in rambutan bark. In Kerala too, it grows well and bears fruit. Seven year old trees begin to bear fruit. Known as the 'Princess of Fruits' and the 'Food of the Goddesses', rambutan is delicious and nutritious. It is also used medicinally. New seedlings are produced through seeds, airborne grafts and grafting.
Thailand is the largest producer of rambutan. There are varieties of rambutan that have red, dark yellow and yellow fruits. In addition, male and female trees are found separately, similar to the caste tree, but very rarely have two flowers and the same species found on the same tree. It is also a fruit tree that can be grown completely organically.
One hundred grams of rambutan contains 40 milligrams of vitamin C. Regular consumption of rambutan can help prevent fever and colds. It helps to protect the skin and remove toxins from the body. Rambutan is a copper-containing fruit. Good for bone health, increase blood flow and prevent anemia and hair loss. Rambutan fruit is best eaten raw. It can be eaten with juice or in salads.
It can be grown at an altitude of 1800 - 2000 ft above sea level. Can be grown in moist and organic soils. The monsoon season from June to November is the best time to cultivate rambutan. The best place for farming is on a slight slope. Rambutan can be grown in pits 3 feet long, 15 feet wide and 15 feet wide. About three-quarters of the pits are filled with topsoil, manure or vermicompost, bone meal, rock phosphate and neem cake. Budded seedlings of hybrid seedlings for planting; Seedlings can be planted by making a small hole in the middle of the pit and spreading the friendly fungus Vam in it. After planting the seedlings, cut the sides of the pit and level it approximately.
Rambutan is a plant that needs partial shade until two to three years of growth. Banana can be grown as an intercrop for shade. These plants need good sunlight from the third year onwards. Trees that receive good sunlight also bear good fruit. In the early stages of growth without shade; It is a plant that needs good fertilization and irrigation. As soon as the first leaves turn green in the seedlings, organic manure, Azospirillum or bio-potash can be applied as a mixture of cow dung, bone meal, seaweed or neem cake in equal proportions.
When the plant is one year old, organic manure can be applied 4 times, bio-fertilizer 2 times and other fertilizers twice. Fertilizer application can be done in the second and third year in the same manner. In addition to organic manure and other fertilizers, it is advisable to apply more manure on the plants older than four years. Although it grows to a height of 75 feet, pruning should be done to prevent it from growing to a height of more than 8 - 10 feet. This will protect the fruit from the menace of birds.
Rambutan usually blooms from December to February. Fertilizer application and irrigation should be avoided during flowering. These flowering plants become fruitful through pollination and are ready for harvest around May-July. Ripe fruits can be picked by scraping.
It is a plant that is not usually affected by diseases. However, it is also a plant that is susceptible to mild insects, nematodes, leaf-eating beetles, worms and grasshoppers. Neem seed extract is commonly used as an organic pesticide to control pests. In addition, weed control can be done by cutting the stems infested with scale insects and destroying them by fire.
In the rambutan tree
Rambutan-inside
Berries inside the rambutan fruit
Rambutan Thai
Rambutan Fruits - Cut lengthwise and crosswise
Rambutan fruits
