Direct-to-home broadcasting or direct broadcast satellite is a form of satellite television. Many television channels are broadcast directly to homes via satellites.
Direct-to-home television, or direct broadcast technology, originated in the Soviet Union. In 1976, the Soviet Union launched Ekren, a geostationary satellite for direct-to-home television broadcasting, which was ahead of the United States in space technology during the Cold War. But this was not a commercial venture. The first direct commercial broadcast satellite service was launched in 1989 by the British company Sky Television. It was a free-to-air-analog service with four channels. The satellite used was the Astra IA. By 1991, Sky Television had switched to the conditional access pay television model. In 1998, Sky Television launched a digital service called Sky Digital. This is now available in the UK and Ireland.
Prime Star was the first company in the United States to launch direct-to-home broadcasting. That was in 1991. In the same year, a company called Direct TV Group launched DTH under the name Direct TV. Service started. It quickly gained popularity. When it could not compete with Direct TV, Prime Star merged with them. In 1996, a company called Ecostar launched DTH Network Dish Network. The service was launched in the United States. The company, which competed directly with Direct TV, gained a large number of customers by providing receivers and services at low cost.
During this period, many companies in other parts of the world, including the United States, launched DTH. Came to the scene. However, the world's leading companies in this field are Direct TV, Dish Network and Sky Digital. In India, there are private entrepreneurs like Airtel, Reliance, Tata and Sun Network and Doordarshan in the public sector. Sea Group's Dish TV is India's first DTH TV. Service.
The basic premise of DTH is that geostationary satellites can always keep a specific segment in service. DTH are satellites operating in the Q band. Utilizing for service. These transponders have a higher signal transmission power, so smaller antennas are sufficient to receive signals. However, C-band satellites have lower antennas and require larger antennas to receive signals from them. This is why DTH antennas are so small. When antennas with a diameter of five to 10 feet are required to receive normal satellite transmission, DTH A dish the size of 18 inches to 30 inches will suffice to receive service. Since the signal travels at a distance of 37000 km from the satellite, they can only be fed to the display system after being energized. For this, a system called Low Noise Block is used. This is known as the DTH integrated receiver / decoder. This I.R.D. The system will have a unique identification number. This number is used by service providers to manage subscription services. I.R.D. Services such as pay-per-view can also be provided in conjunction with the telephone. In recent years, all DTH Service providers also provide services digitally. A digital set-top box is essential to accept this. This is known as the integrated receiver / decoder in TH. This I.R.D. The system will have a unique identification number. This number is used by service providers to manage subscription services. I.R.D. Services such as pay-per-view can also be provided in conjunction with the telephone. In recent years, all DTH Service providers also provide services digitally. A digital set-top box is essential to accept this. This is known as the integrated receiver / decoder in TH. This I.R.D. The system will have a unique identification number. This number is used by service providers to manage subscription services. I.R.D. Services such as pay-per-view can also be provided in conjunction with the telephone. In recent years, all DTH Service providers also provide services digitally. A digital set-top box is essential to accept this.
DBS has many advantages over cable and terrestrial television broadcasting. It is important to note that the visual and audio quality of the programs will be high due to the receipt of signals directly from the satellite. Although satellites are also used in terrestrial television transmissions, the quality of the signals decreases as they are first received at specific stations and then transmitted over cables or the atmosphere. The major achievements of DBS are as follows.
DTH is the transition to high definition television. Major change taking place in the scene. Direct TV, Dish Network and Sky Digital have all launched high definition television services.
Sun Direct is the first high definition service provider in India.
The Government of India's approval of Direct to Home is a significant change in the broadcast media in India. The decision was taken by the Cabinet in November 2000. Unlike the existing cable system, it is capable of delivering messages directly from satellites to homes. For this, the more powerful K on the satellite. U will use the transponder. It can be accessed directly through an antenna installed in homes.
Attempts were made in 1996 to bring it Direct to Home in India. Star T. V came forward for this. But the high-frequency K. Permission was denied on the grounds that allowing a foreign company to broadcast on U-Band would threaten the very security of the country. Later, Doordarshan and some private companies were given permission
DTH service providers in India
 AAC · HE-AAC · MPEG-1 Layer II · AMR-WB + | 
 Technical: Audio processing · Audio_data_compression · Digital radio · Error Correction · Multipath 
