The World Health Organization defines stroke as a centrally functioning disorder of the brain that originates in the circulatory system and lasts for more than 24 hours or results in death. The current medical consensus is that a stroke can be defined as a condition that lasts for more than 24 hours, or if the symptoms suddenly disappear and a clinically significant lesion appears on a scan of the brain.
When the blood vessels to the brain become blocked or a blood vessel ruptures, blood flow to the brain is blocked, thereby blocking the supply of oxygen and nutrients to the brain tissue. Subsequent neurological disorders can cause paralysis of one side of the body, paralysis of the limbs, loss of sensation in parts of the body, partial or complete loss of speech and vision, difficulty in moving the eyes, tilting to the sides while walking, and inability to perform various activities. Symptoms may include fainting, dizziness, loss of spatial consciousness, epilepsy, and headache.
Based on the immediate cause of the stroke, the stroke is divided into two broad categories as follows:
Ischemic stroke is caused by a blood clot in the arteries leading to the brain. Hemorrhagic stroke is caused by the spontaneous rupture of arteries within the cerebral cortex or the aurachnoid arteries adjacent to the meninges. Cerebral hemorrhage caused by head injury or skull fracture is not considered a stroke.
Transient ischemic stroke, or "TIA", is a transient disorder of the nervous system caused by concentrated problems in the brain or retina. Although closely similar to the symptoms of a stroke, the TIA's feature is that the neurological symptoms disappear within about 1 hour without leaving any signs of infarction in any of the scans. TIA is considered a precursor to stroke because patients with transient ischemic stroke have a higher risk of developing a stroke within the next 90 days.
A group of strokes that fall within the definition of stroke but do not show any outward symptoms and show traumatic events in the MRI scans of the brain are called "silent stroke". The presence of "silent shock" can be as high as 20% in the sick and up to 50% in the sick. Most of these are the result of changes in the small cerebral arteries caused by high blood pressure. The clinical significance of this is great because the patient who suffers from silent strokes is twice as likely to have full-blown strokes in the future.
After a heart attack, most people in the world die of a stroke. In 2001, an estimated 5.5 million people worldwide died from cerebral palsy. In 2004, it increased to 5.7 million. By 2030, stroke is projected to remain the second leading cause of death in the world, but is projected to increase from 9.6% to 10.6% of all deaths.
It is estimated that 1.6 million new cases of stroke occur each year. 6.2 crore people have already suffered a stroke. Two-thirds of these patients are in developing countries like India. Patients are forced to depend on others, in whole or in part, for physical damage. The productive years are lost from the patient's life due to permanent or temporary disability. Patients in developing countries who are financially backward due to lack of timely treatment or proper rehabilitation lose up to 7 times their life expectancy due to disability.
The most important risk factors leading to stroke are high blood pressure, high blood fat, obesity and a sedentary lifestyle. Other risk factors for stroke include heart attack, atrial fibrillation, diabetes, and carotid artery stenosis. Low levels of nutrients in the diet can also lead to stroke, heart disease, vascular abnormalities such as cerebral palsy, and an increased tendency for blood to clot.
Stroke is generally considered to be a disease of the elderly. Increasing urbanization and rising life expectancy are affecting the rate of stroke. About 60% of stroke deaths occur in people over the age of 70. According to worldwide statistics, ischemic stroke accounts for 80% of all strokes. Up to 10-15% of trauma is caused by intracranial hemorrhage and 5% by avarachnoid hemorrhage. However, in Asian countries, cerebral hemorrhage is estimated to be as high as 20-30%.
Treatment of strokes is based on the cause of the disease. CT scan or MRI scan of the brain is required. Blood thinners and, in some cases, fibrinolytic drugs are given in a timely manner to dissolve the clotting blood in the arteries of the brain. If bleeding is the cause of the injury, surgical removal of the bleeding is one method. In some cases, the secretion is allowed to dissolve on its own. Ventilator-assisted artificial respiration is also not uncommon in cases of unconsciousness, epilepsy, or other immediate problems. People who have suffered a stroke or speech impairment due to a stroke may need to be fed through an artificial tube into the stomach until they regain strength. Medications to control high blood pressure, lower blood cholesterol, and control diabetes are prescribed. Platelet-releasing drugs or anticoagulants such as warfarin are also given to reduce the risk of further blood clots. Carotid endarterectomy may also be needed to remove the blockage inside the carotid artery, the main artery that carries blood to the brain. The patient needs physical and mental support and assistance until the neuropathy caused by the stroke is reversed. Exercises to regain self-sufficiency and physiotherapy to increase muscle strength are part of rehabilitation. Carotid endarterectomy may also be needed to remove the blockage inside the carotid artery, the main artery that carries blood to the brain. The patient needs physical and mental support and assistance until the neuropathy caused by the stroke is reversed. Exercises to regain self-sufficiency and physiotherapy to increase muscle strength are part of rehabilitation. Carotid endarterectomy may also be needed to remove the blockage inside the carotid artery, the main artery that carries blood to the brain. The patient needs physical and mental support and assistance until the neuropathy caused by the stroke is reversed. Exercises to regain self-sufficiency and physiotherapy to increase muscle strength are part of rehabilitation.   
Controlling blood pressure, fat, diabetes and heart disease, and regular exercise and smoking cessation can reduce the risk of stroke. Early detection of symptoms and immediate treatment of the patient can reduce the rate of neuropathy and paralysis.  

Malayalam video about paralysis
