Bhagat Singh was one of the revolutionaries who took part in the Indian freedom struggle. Also known as Shaheed Bhagat Singh, meaning Martyr. He is considered a revolutionary who fought against the British occupation. He was involved in the Lahore conspiracy and was executed by the British government. Bhagat Singh had been working against the British Raj since his childhood. The books he read at the time about the revolutionary organizations in Europe drew him closer to anarchism and Marxism. Historians describe him as one of the first Marxists in India to prioritize armed struggle over non-violent means of struggle. Bhagat Singh was one of the founding leaders of the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association, a revolutionary organization.
He surrendered to the police in connection with the Lahore conspiracy case related to the bombing of the Central Legislative Assembly in Lahore. Though there were ways to escape from the police, Bhagat Singh and his group surrendered to the police, hoping that the British authorities would identify their ideas and goals. Bhagat Singh went on a 63-day hunger strike demanding that all prisoners in the jail be given equal treatment. This earned him a lot of popularity. Bhagat Singh's involvement in the murder of policeman John Saunders has also been proven. Bhagat Singh was tried in the Lahore conspiracy case and sentenced to death at the age of twenty-three. It is believed that Bhagat Singh's life later inspired many young people to join the Indian freedom struggle.
Bhagat Singh was born on September 28, 1907, to a Sikh farming family in the village of Banka in the Layalpur district of Punjab, now part of Pakistan. Father - Sardar Kishan Singh. Mother - Student. Bhagat was the second son of the couple and the first son Jagat Singh died at the age of eleven. On the day of Bhagat Singh's birthday, his father and two paternal brothers, who were imprisoned during the freedom struggle, were released from jail. Her grandmother named her Bhagonwala, which means lucky child. The name Bhagat Singh was later derived from this name. Some of Bhagat Singh's relatives were freedom fighters and some also served as soldiers of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Bhagat's grandfather was a member of the Arya Samaj led by Swami Dayananda Saraswati. Bhagat was greatly influenced by the character and lifestyle of Swami Dayananda Saraswati. Unlike other Sikhs of the time, Bhagat did not go to school for schooling. My grandfather did not like to go to schools under the British rule. Bhagat completed his primary education at Dayananda Anglo Vedic High School, which was run by the Arya Samaj.
The Jallianwala Bagh massacre shocked the country when Bhagat Singh was 12 years old. The incident where innocent people were shot ignited patriotism in this young man. The next day, Bhagat visited Jallianwala Bagh, decorated a small bottle of blood and soil collected from there, placed it in his room and greeted it. This is an example of how patriotism flourished in Bhagat's life as a child. Bhagat Singh became an active member of the Mahatma Gandhi Non - Cooperation Movement at the age of 13 in 1920. As part of his non-cooperation, he left Dayanand Anglo Vedic School and joined the National College in Lahore. Bhagat had given equal importance to academic and extra-curricular activities. History and politics were Bhagat's favorite subjects. Bhagat loved to talk to his friends about the subjects he had learned in class. Bhagat was an active member of the university's theater troupe. This is where the friendship between Bhagat Sukhdev and Bhagwati Charan Vohra begins. Apart from daily teaching, Lala Lajpat Rai used to take patriotic classes there. Bhagat was greatly influenced by such classes. Vidyalankar, Bhagat's history teacher, was another person who greatly influenced Bhagat. There was a very close relationship between Vidyalankar and Bhagat. But Bhagat began to believe that the British could be expelled from India only through revolution, rather than the non-cooperation movement. Bhagat was later unable to adapt to Gandhiji's non-violent style of struggle. Because Britain was confronting even these unarmed fighters armed. Innocent villagers were killed by British troops in the riots that followed the Chaurichaura incident. Such events reinforced Bhagat's determination to take the path of revolution. Bhagat was fluent in five different languages. He also started working with various organizations that he found were in line with his goals. In 1924, his parents arranged a marriage proposal for him, but Bhagat Singh rejected the proposal, saying, "As long as India is independent, my bride will be dead." He left home and went to Kanpur to escape his parents' compulsion to get married. There he joined a printing press called Pratap Press and began to study revolutionary literature in his spare time.
Singh was arrested by the police on charges of involvement in the 1926 Dussehra bomb blast in Lahore. However, Singh was released on Rs 60,000 bail. In Kanpur in 1924, he joined the Hindustan Republican Association, founded by Sachindranath Sanyal. One of its main organizers was Chandrasekhar Azad. Thus Bhagat Singh got a chance to get very close with Azad. In 1925 he returned to Lahore. The next year he, along with a few colleagues, formed an armed revolutionary organization called the Naujawan Bharat Sabha. In 1926, Bhagat Sohan Singh formed an alliance with Josh, through which he became associated with the Workers and Peasants' Party. Workers and Peasants Party published a magazine in Punjabi called Keerthi. The following year, Bhagat Singh became a member of Keerthi's editorial board. He was arrested in 1927 for publishing an article in connection with the Kakori train robbery. Bhagat Singh wrote the article under the pseudonym Vidrohi. At that time, Singh was writing articles for various newspapers and magazines. Singh also wrote for Veer Arjun, a Delhi - based newspaper. Ram Prasad Bismillah and Ashfullah Khan were hanged in the Kakori Tain robbery case. Later, Bhagat Singh and Chandrasekhar Azad were tasked with leading the movement. By 1928, the Hindustan Republican Association was headed by Bhagat Singh and Chandrasekhar Azad. He first changed the name of the organization to the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association.
The Simon Commission was set up in 1928 by Sir John Simon to look into the possibility of the British government granting autonomy to India. There were no Indian representatives on the Simon Commission. On October 30, 1928, a peaceful protest led by Lala Lajpat Rai took place in Lahore. Police in riot gear stormed a rally on Friday, removing hundreds of protesters by truck. Lala Lajpat Rai, a victim of terror, has died. The incident caused an uproar in the British Parliament, but officials denied any involvement. There were some ideological disputes and divisions between Bhagat Singh and Lala Lajpat Rai. Lalaji Bhagat has been called an agent of the Russians, It has also been alleged that such young revolutionaries are irresponsible. Bhagat did not like Lalaji's Hindutva at all. Despite such opposition, Bhagat Lalaji was highly respected. Bhagat Singh, who witnessed Lalaji's death, vowed to ask Scott to replace him. Bhagat suggested that Britain should send a message of blood to blood. Bhagat told his friends that at least ten British people should be killed for every Indian who dies. Everyone present at the meeting, including Durga Devi, the wife and revolutionary of Bhagwati Charan Vohra, came forward ready to assassinate Scott. Finally, Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Chandrasekhar Azad were appointed for this task. But instead of Scott, a police officer named John Saunders was unfortunately killed. Jayagopal, an activist involved in the case, later defected to the court and betrayed Bhagat Singh and his friends in the John Saunders case.
The group escaped through the door of a nearby college. Chandrasekhar Azad opened fire on the police to save the Moors from the police. The three escaped on bicycles to pre-arranged safe camps. Police have intensified their search to nab them. All gates outside the city of Lahore were subjected to strict surveillance. And ordered to check all young men leaving the city. The three went into hiding for the first two days. Later, with the help of a friend, he planned to leave Lahore for Howrah. Singh shaved his beard and cut his hair short so as not to be recognized in public.
Singh and Rajguru left the residence early in the morning with loaded guns. They were accompanied by the wife of a friend, Bhagwati Charan Vohra. Singh was carrying their child on his shoulders. They acted like a couple in disguise. Raj Guru with a bag like a servant. They took fake tickets from the heavily guarded railway station and first traveled to Kanpur and from there to Lucknow. At Lucknow, the Rajguru left them and went to Banaras as planned. All except Bhagat Singh returned to Lahore a few days later.
In 1928, the government sought to amend the Public Safety Bill. At the heart of the law was the independence of the police. It was presented as a remnant of the First World War. The secret aim was to suppress the freedom struggle. But the resolution did not succeed due to lack of support from one member in the legislature. Yet the Viceroy decided to enforce the law in the name of protecting the public interest. Outraged, Bhagat Singh and his cohorts decided to bombard the law-abiding assembly. The idea presented at his party was undoubtedly accepted. The plan was to bomb the church with Sukhdev and BK Dutt, at which time Bhagat Singh had to travel to Russia. But later the plan was changed and the job was given to Bhagat Singh and B.K. And adopted. The two had visited the Assembly Hall two days before the scheduled date. This was to find a suitable place to bombard in a way that would not endanger anyone in the hall. On April 8, 1929, Bhagat Singh and BK Dutt bombed the church, distributing pamphlets calling for Inquilab Zindabad and Imperialism Murdabad to open the ears of the deaf. The bomber struck shortly after noon in front of a crowd of mourners, leaving no one dead or injured. There, they arrested themselves. On the day of the incident, the two were sitting in a visitor 's place before the ceremony. Many notables like Motilal Nehru, Muhammadali Jinnah and Madan Mohan Malaviya were visitors to the Assembly that day. The two had not tried to escape after the incident. Instead, he stood up and shouted slogans. The two surrendered before Sergeant Terry, a police officer who was present in court when the smoke cleared. Asif Ali, who was also a lawyer in the court that day, testified that the first two bombs were dropped by Bhagat Singh and the third by Dutt. He later appeared for the defendant in the Lahore conspiracy case. Asif Ali, who was also a lawyer in the court that day, testified that the third one was thrown by Dutt. He later appeared for the defendant in the Lahore conspiracy case. Asif Ali, who was also a lawyer in the court that day, testified that the third one was thrown by Dutt. He later appeared for the defendant in the Lahore conspiracy case.
The trial of Bhagat Singh and Dutta in connection with the bombing of the Assembly began on May 7, 1929. There was a lot of controversy and argument about the affidavits and evidence presented in court. The main controversy was over the gun in Bhagat Singh's hand when he was arrested. Sergeant Terry, a police officer who was arrested in the Assembly Hall, told the court that Bhagat was holding the gun down when he arrested him. However, Sobha Singh, a well-known businessman who was present in the assembly hall at the time, testified before the court that Bhagat Singh fired three shots from the gun. Sobha Singh is the father of Khushwant Singh, who later became a famous writer. Historian and writer Khushwant Singh Koonar says that Bhagat's possession of the gun that day was a big mistake. "If Bhagat had intended to surrender peacefully to the police, Bhagat should not have carried the gun in his hand," Cooner said. Police later told the court with the help of evidence that Saunders was shot with the same gun. The case is being re-assigned to another judge, Leonard Middleton. Dutt had a lawyer to defend him, but Bhagat Singh himself lined up his arguments. In Lahore, police found the bomb-making site and arrested others. Prem Dutt, the youngest member of the group, hurled insults at her friend Jayagopal, who had defected during the court hearing. This created a controversy in court. The court ordered that all the culprits be taken into custody. Although everyone apologized for the mistake made by one of them, the court refused to show mercy. The court decided to hold the next hearing in the absence of the accused. This was a major setback for Bhagat, who had decided to use the courtroom as a platform to share his ideas with the outside world. The court decided to hold the next hearing in the absence of the accused. This was a major setback for Bhagat, who had decided to use the courtroom as a platform to share his ideas with the outside world. The court decided to hold the next hearing in the absence of the accused. This was a major setback for Bhagat, who had decided to use the courtroom as a platform to share his ideas with the outside world.
Bhagat was on trial in the Saunders murder case and the Assembly bombing case. The statements of friends Hansraj Vohra and Jayagopal became important evidence against Bhagat. The statements of those who participated in the Saunders murder case were very decisive in the case. The sentencing in the case of the bombing was postponed until the verdict in the Saunders case. Singh was transferred from Delhi Jail to Mianwali Jail. Bhagat was outraged by the segregation he saw in Mianwali Jail. British prisoners and Indian prisoners were housed here in two ways. While the British prisoners were provided with all kinds of facilities, good food and newspapers to read, the political prisoners in India had poor food and very poor living conditions. He began a hunger strike against the injustices of political prisoners in prisons, against discrimination in prisons, and for better living conditions and books to read. The strike caused a stir in Parliament. Muhammad Ali Jinnah raised his voice in Parliament on behalf of the Satyagrahis. Jawaharlal Nehru visited the Satyagrahis in jail.
The government looked for various ways to break the Satyagraha. The Satyagrahis were removed from their cells. Milk was filled into bowls filled with drinking water. The British government thought that the Satyagraha would end with its drinking. But the idea did not work. Attempts were made to deliver food through the tube to the mouths of the Satyagrahis with fierce pressure, but this did not happen due to strong opposition. The agitation began to gain public attention. Lord Irwin, the Viceroy of Britain, cut short his Shimla vacation and returned to prison to solve the problem. Bhagat Singh was shifted to the Bostel Jail in Lahore to break up the Satyagraha movement and continue the trial in the Saunders murder case. Bhagat and 27 others were charged with attempting to assassinate Saunders and conspiring against the king. Here again, Bhagat did not back down from his hunger strike. He was arraigned and taken to court on a stretcher. Meanwhile, Satyagraha activist Jatindra Das died. With this, Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt refused to give up their satyagraha.
Jatindradas' death attracted a lot of public attention. Motilal Nehru introduced an urgent resolution in Parliament against inhumane treatment of Satyagrahis. Mohammad Alam and Gopichand Bhargava resigned from the Punjab Legislative Committee. On October 5, 1929, Bhagat ended his fast. Lord Irwin, the Viceroy, set up a special court to expedite the trial. The order for the special court referred to the fact that only the Privy Council, the judiciary of England, would be above this court. Interestingly, the trial took place in the absence of the accused people. The trial lasted from May 5, 1930 to September 10, 1930. On October 7, 1930, a special court sentenced Sukhdev, Bhagat Singh and Rajguru to death by hanging. The remaining 12 were sentenced to life imprisonment. Three people, including BK Dutt, were earlier sentenced to life imprisonment in the Assembly bombing case.
After the death sentence was handed down, everyone forced Bhagat to appeal to the Privy Council of England. Although Bhagat was initially opposed to the move, he later backed it, believing it might give his party a campaign in Britain. A panel of experts was formed in Punjab to appeal to the Privy Council. The appeal stated that the Viceroy did not have the power to set up such a special court and that there were no circumstances under which such a special court could be constituted. However, the Privy Council rejected the apology on the ground that the power to do so rested with the Viceroy and upheld the decision of the Special Court.
The attention of the country was reduced to Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. People thought that if there was anyone who could abolish the death penalty for these three young men, it was Gandhi. Bhagat Singh firmly believed that their sentence would not be commuted under the Gandhi-Irwin Pact. The youths threw leaflets at Gandhi, who was attending a meeting in Delhi in March. The entire content of the pamphlet was a protest against Gandhi's inaction. A series of appeals were pouring in from across the country against the authorities to overturn the death sentences of the three young men. Subhas Chandra Bose arrived in Bombay and met Gandhiji. The purpose was to abolish the punishment of these young men as part of the Gandhi-Irwin Pact. Subhas Chandra Bose visited the three in jail. Subhash recalls that the three of them were in dire straits and were anxious about the attempts to save their lives outside the jail. Ajay Ghosh, a fellow prisoner of Bhagat Singh in jail and a convict in the Lahore conspiracy case, recalls that he believed that Gandhi and the Congress leaders would try to save Bhagat Singh and other friends from the death penalty, even if it was part of the Gandhi-Irwin pact or a special provision included in the agreement.
The death sentence was upheld by the court on March 24, 1931. But even Bhagat Singh was executed about eleven hours earlier without prior notice. Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were hanged on March 23, 1931 at 7:30 pm. The bodies were set on fire in Ganda Singhwala village, 60 km from Lahore, after the back wall of the jail was demolished without informing relatives or friends who were waiting outside. The ashes were thrown into the Sutlej River.
Although Bhagat Singh could have been spared the death penalty while in prison, it is said that Mahatma Gandhi did not. It is said that Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi conspired with the British to expedite the execution of Bhagat Singh. Gandhiji's followers have criticized him for saying that he had no influence in pressuring Britain to abolish the death penalty. She added that Bhagat Singh had not raised any threat to question Gandhi 's role in India's freedom struggle. Gandhi always praised Bhagat Singh's patriotism and opposed the death penalty from the beginning. I always oppose the death penalty, God gives a life, Gandhiji's statement that he alone has the right to recover it contradicts the controversy that his followers did not attempt to abolish the death penalty for Bhagat Singh. The Gandhi-Irwin agreement freed about 90,000 political prisoners. Gandhi had written a letter to the Viceroy on the morning of the day of the execution, requesting that the death sentences of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev be commuted. Gandhi's followers point to evidence that he did not know it was too late to deliver the letter. Gandhi had written a letter to the Viceroy on the morning of the day of the execution, requesting that Sukhdev's death sentence be commuted. Gandhi's followers point to evidence that he did not know it was too late to deliver the letter. Gandhi had written a letter to the Viceroy on the morning of the day of the execution, requesting that Sukhdev's death sentence be commuted. Gandhi's followers point to evidence that he did not know it was too late to deliver the letter.
Baba Randhir, Bhagat Singh's fellow prisoner in the jail, used to talk to Bhagat about God and religion. But Singh had sent him back saying he did not believe in any of these issues. Also, Randhir was asked why he inflicts such suffering on man even if you think there is a God you believe in. This question angered Randhir and he spoke very harshly to Bhagat. Bhagat is writing the pamphlet Why I Became an Atheist in response to this Randhir. However, Randhir later said that he wanted to perform religious rites to become a Sikh. The British prison authorities, however, rejected the demand. Historians, however, deny this evidence.
Shaheed Bhagat Singh was fascinated by Marxist thought. One of the ideals of Shaheed Bhagat Singh was to rebuild the future of India according to Marxist principles. From 1926 he studied the progress of the revolutionary movement in India and abroad. Bhagat used to read a lot of books while he was a prisoner. Fellow prisoners recall that he read a number of books, including those of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, such as The Communist Manifesto, The Das Capital, and The French Revolution. Bhagat had also written a pamphlet in jail on the subject of why I became an atheist.

