The Samjhauta Express runs twice a week between Delhi and Attari in India and Lahore in Pakistan. This train is commonly known as the Friendly Express. The word Samjhauta in Hindi and Urdu means agreement and Ranjip.
Until the resumption of the Thar Express, the Samjhauta Express was the only rail link between India and Pakistan. The train was launched on July 22, 1976 following the Shimla Agreement. At that time, the Samjhauta Express was a 42 km long train connecting Amritsar and Lahore. As a result of the unrest in Punjab in the late 1980s, the Indian Railways decided not to operate the Samjhauta Express service in Attari due to safety concerns. On April 14, 2000, an agreement was reached between the Indian Railways and the Pakistan Railways to reduce the distance to three kilometers.
Samjhauta Express started with daily service. Once a week in 1994. The train first stopped running on January 1, 2002. The race was called off on December 13, 2001, following a terrorist attack on the Indian Parliament. However, train service resumed on January 15, 2004. Following the assassination of Benazir Bhutto on December 27, 2007, the Samjhauta Express was suspended.
A bomb blast on the Samjhauta Express on the morning of February 19, 2007 killed at least 68 people and injured dozens more. Most of the dead were from Pakistan and train security personnel from India. The bomber struck shortly after noon in front of the Diwana station in Panipat, Haryana. Officers recovered several explosives, including three unexploded bombs, from the scene. On July 1, 2009, the United States and its Department of the Treasury reported that Lashkar-e-Taiba's Arif Qasmani was involved in the Samjhauta Express bombings, but the National Investigation Agency found that Swami Aseemanand, a Hindu militant leader, had planned the blasts and charged them with conspiracy.
But on December 30, 2010, the National Investigation Agency announced that they had clear evidence that Swami Aseemanand was behind the Samjhauta Express blast. Swami Aseemanand commissioned Sandeep Danke, an engineering graduate, and Ramji Kalsankara, an electrician, to make explosives. On January 8, 2011, it was revealed that Swami Aseemanand had confessed before a judge that Hindu extremist groups were behind the Samjhauta Express blast. But Aseemanand's lawyer later argued that this was forced on him by Swami Aseemanand. Indresh Kumar's lawyer has issued a notice to the CBI alleging that Swami Aseemanand's confession was deliberately leaked to the media.
