Lake Tanganyika is a freshwater lake in Africa. It is the second largest freshwater lake in the world in terms of size and depth. It is also the longest freshwater lake in the world. Parts of the lake are under the jurisdiction of Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania and Zambia. Most of it is under the Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania. The water in the lake flows into the Atlantic Ocean through the Congo River system.
Lake Tanzania separates Tanzania on the east coast from Congo on the west. The only outlet to the lake is the Lukuga River. This carries the lake water to the Kongon River. Fluctuations in the water level of the lake are common as the river is occasionally blocked by silt deposits.
Lake Thanganika is one of the most effectively used water bodies for water transport. Lake Thankanika is located in the shallow western valley of the Great Rift Valley. Albertville, Congo, Bujumbura, Burundi and Kigoma, Tanzania are the main ports on Lake Thanganika.
Dimensions
Boundaries
Richard Burton and John Speck, British explorers, were the first Westerners to discover the lake. This was in 1858. Their purpose was to trace the origin of the Nile. Lake Victoria, the original source of the Speck Nile River, was later discovered.
At the beginning of World War I, the lake was completely under German control. The Allies gained control of the lake in two major battles. In 1965, Che Guevara used the west bank of the lake to train guerrilla fighters. The intention was to seize power but they had to retreat without achieving the goal.
Throughout the 19th century, the coast of Thanganika was under the control of Arab slave traders. The first Europeans to reach the shores of Lake Tanganyika in 1858 were British explorers Johnspeck and Richard Burton. Henry Morton, who went missing after David Livingston set out on an African expedition, was found in 1871 in Ujjain, east of Lake Stanley.
There are 250 species of cichlids and 150 species of other fish in the lake. Most of them live in depths up to 180 m. Lake Tanganyika is an important biological resource for the study of evolution. Apart from its diverse fisheries, the lake is also home to hippos and crocodiles.
This African geography article is a stub. Help develop this.
