It is a bird sanctuary established in Kerala on August 27, 1983. Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, Thattekkad or Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary. Covering an area of ​​25.16 sq. Km, this region is home to a wide variety of native birds and is a popular bird sanctuary in Kerala. Apart from these, a variety of migratory birds also visit here from time to time. The famous Indian ornithologist Dr. Salim Ali came here several times for bird watching. As early as the 1950s, he recommended that the site be turned into a bird sanctuary. The bird sanctuary gained momentum after a survey of the Salim Ali area in the 1970s. In honor of him, Dr. Named after the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary. Today, it is estimated that there are 330 species of birds, including migratory birds.
The Periyar River flows through the Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary. The sanctuary is located in the eastern part of Ernakulam district and the western part of Idukki district. Kuttampuzha in the northeastern part of Thattekkad, Malayattoor protected forests in the south southeast, Idamalayar in the north, Periyar in the west and southwest. The Idamalayar joins the Periyar at Thattekkad. In the Western_Ghats- lowland landscape as usual. Elevation varies from 35 m to 523 m above sea level. The highest point is Njayapilli hill.
Thattekkad Sanctuary, a tropical forest, has three main types of forests: evergreen, semi-evergreen and deciduous and moist forests. Apart from natural forests, there are also teak and mahogany plantations. The Bhutathan Kettu Natural Dam is also located in this area. An artificial irrigation dam is also located in the area. Students who were on a study tour through this reservoir were killed in a boat accident.
Many rare birds are found in the area such as silver owl, Malabar chicken, chicken hornbill and fire crow. The world's rarest frogs and other birds have also been found here. Birds weighing seven to three and a half kilograms are found in the area. But the peacock is not found in this area.
In addition to birds, there are butterflies, elephants, tigers, wild boar, wildcats, wild dogs, wild monkeys, leopards, deer, cubs, wild buffalo, lizards, pangolins, llamas, deer, porcupines, porcupines, woodpeckers, small squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels, squirrels The sanctuary is home to reptiles ranging from Kuzhimanali to pythons and king cobras. It is also a popular destination for birds, especially waterfowl, due to its rich fisheries in rivers and other bodies of water.
The forest department has allowed those interested in bird watching to enter the sanctuary and study between 6 am and 4 pm. Guides are also prepared by the Forest Department. The forest department has also set up dormitories for those in need of accommodation. The information center set up by the forest department has collected pictures of various birds. Eggs of various birds and stuffed bodies of animals are on display here. There is also a library with books on birds.
The bird sanctuary is located at a distance of 60 km from Ernakulam and 42 km from Nedumbassery Airport. There is also a bus service from Aluva to Kothamangalam. Buses are available from Kothamangalam to Thattekkad.
At present, the forest department has suspended access to the forest through the main gate.
Kerala Forest Department
Ceylon Frogmouth, surroundings of Thattekad Bird Sanctuary
View of Periyar from Pappitta Bird Trail
A landscape at Thattekad Bird Sanctuary
A landscape at Thattekad Bird Sanctury
Thattekad Reservoir
Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary Trail
Cora Hartshorn Arboretum and Bird Sanctuary • Creamer's Field Migratory Waterfowl Refuge • കുമരകം പക്ഷിസങ്കേതം • Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary • Mayani Bird Sanctuary • Mousehole Wild Bird Hospital and Sanctuary • Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary bandbandach Sanctuary • Ranganthittu Bird Sanctuary • Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary • Tamil Nadu Bird Sanctuaries • Thattekkad Bird Sanctuary • Wing Haven Gardens and Bird Sanctuary
This environmental article is a stub. Help develop this.
