The relationship between mathematics and physics has been studied by philosophers, mathematicians, physicists, historians and educators since ancient times. While it is generally accepted that there is a close relationship between these, mathematics is considered "a fundamental tool" of physics, and physics is considered a "rich inspiration" for mathematics.

One topic that Aristotle dealt with in his work on physics is how the studies of physicists and mathematicians differ. Approaches that regard mathematics as the language of nature can be found in the ideas of the Pythagoreans. The Pythagoreans said that "numbers rule the world", "all are numbers", and two centuries later Galileo Galilei: "The book of nature is written in the language of mathematics."
Archimedes put forward physical evidence before mathematical evidence to validate the formula for finding the size of a sphere. Since the 17th century, many achievements in mathematics have been inspired by the study of physics. Although mathematics became more and more independent after the 19th century, the influence of physics continued. The discovery and development of calculus was related to the needs of the study of physics: a new mathematical language was needed to study the dynamic dynamics that emerged from the studies of Galileo Galilei and Isaac Newton. Nowadays, the boundary between mathematics and physics was narrow; Newton, for example, regarded geometry as a branch of mechanics. Over time, more and more sophisticated and complex mathematical operations began to be used in physics. Mathematics is used more and more in modern physics as it is used in super string theory.

The following are some of the problems considered in the philosophy of mathematics:
Although there is a correlation between mathematics and physics, recently these two subjects have been taught separately. Mathematicians interested in teaching mathematics, such as Felix Klein, Richard Corrent, Fladimir Arnold, and Maurice Klein, suggested that mathematics should be taught in conjunction with physics.
 
 
