BC in the northwestern part of the Indian subcontinent, in the Indus Valley between present-day India and Pakistan. 3300 to B.C. The Indus Valley Civilization is a civilization that existed until the 1700s. It reached its peak in BCE. In the 26th to 19th centuries. It is one of the largest early civilizations in the world. To this day, historians have not been able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt why and how these settlements were destroyed. Archaeological excavations carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India during 1922-23 have revealed this culture to the world. Like other ancient civilizations in the world, it developed in the river valleys.
Anthropologists and archaeologists first find evidence of this in the city of Harappa in present-day Pakistan. The oldest archeological record ever recorded in India dates back to the invasion of Emperor Alexander. Prior to this discovery, the Vedic period was considered by historians to be the oldest period of human history in the Indian subcontinent.
Today, this culture has been found in the basins of the Ghaggar-Hakra River, which flows only during the monsoon season. There is a theory that this river must have been the Saraswati mentioned in the Vedas. Based on this, it has been called the Indus-Saraswati river basin culture in recent times. However, this argument has been widely questioned. The earliest evidence of excavations in Harappa suggests that this civilization is also referred to as the Harappan culture, with the site as the center.
Charles Mason, a traveling historian, recorded traces of ancient civilizations in Balochistan, Punjab, and Afghanistan during his travels from 1826-1838. John Brandon and William Brandon, British engineers involved in the construction of the Karachi-Lahore Railway in the 1850s, noted the abundance of bricks that appeared to be very old in these areas. Due to their ignorance of their true origin at that time, they used it for their railway construction. In 1875 he published one of the seals discovered by Alexander Cunningham at Harappa in 1853. He thought it was the Brahmi script.
On the basis of this, the Archaeological Survey of India under the leadership of Sir John Hubert Marshall, an archaeologist, intensified its work in India. Later excavations were carried out at Harappa from 1920 to 1934 under the supervision of Madhu Swaroop Vats, an Indian archaeologist. An important event that led to this was the discovery of an archeological site that could not determine whether it was a Buddhist stupa or a Shiva lingam.
The sanctuary at Harappa was discovered in 1921 by archaeologist Rao Bahadur Dayaram Sahni. While he was inspecting a hill for excavation, he found several seals of the type found by Cunningham. Excavations around it again revealed the remains of a large city in 7 layers. It was speculated at the time that they were at least 2500 years old before Christ. A year later, Rakhal Das Banerjee excavated the remains of a similar civilization at Mohenjo-daro. Subsequently, until 1933, numerous excavations, both large and small, took place.
After the Partition of India in 1950, Mortimer Wheeler conducted extensive excavations in the area and found more remains. The study was conducted in areas ranging from Sutkagan Dor in Balochistan to Lothal in Gujarat. Other notable scientists who have explored these sites include Aurel Stein, Nani Gopal Majumdar, and B.B. Lal and Michael Johnson.
Amri Chanhu-Daro, a short distance from Mohenjo-daro, Kalibangan in Rajasthan, southeast of Harappa, and Banavalli in Haryana were among the sites excavated at that time. Evidence of the Indus Valley Civilization has been found to date in over 1500 areas in northeastern India.
Archaeologists have unearthed 73 tombs believed to belong to the Harappan culture during the most recent excavations. The crucial evidence came from 20 hectares of land in Farmana in Rohtak district of Haryana. The skulls found date back to 2500-2000 BC. It is thought to belong to the period. The new invention was developed by joint ventures between Maharshi Dayanand University in Rothak, the Deccan College of Postgraduate and Research Institute in Pune, and the Kyoto Research Institute for Humanity and Nature in Japan.
In 1973, a number of Neolithic remains were found at Mehrgarh in Balochistan. There is a lot of research going on about this culture, which is estimated to be around 7000 years old. This Mehergarh culture is considered to be the forerunner of the Harappan culture.
There is also ample evidence of other pre-Harappan civilizations. The Mercury culture is a civilization that can be called the ancestor of Harappa. Discovered near the Bolan Pass in Quetta, Balochistan, it is a Paleolithic civilization. Merghad Civilization BCE 7000 to 5500 existed. This culture has been found scattered in many places in the vicinity. Agriculture and Livestock are one of the first places in human history to appear. The oldest pottery ever available is from Merger. The Null culture and the Kulli civilization near Balochistan are believed to be part of the Merghad culture itself.
The civilizations of Kot Diji and Amri, found in the plains along the Indus River, are also believed to be the ancestors of the Indus Valley Invaders. The clay pots recovered from these places are engraved with images of arayal and fish scales similar to the pottery of Harappa.
Other places that are believed to be the ancestors of Harappa are Sothi, Kalibagan, Kunal and Banawali in Rajasthan. 
The Harappan culture spread over an area of ​​about 800,000 sq km. Although this culture originated in Tibet and formed in the lower reaches of the Indus River, which flows through present - day Pakistan and into the Arabian Sea, there is clear evidence that it later spread to remote areas. It extends from Rupar and Manda in the north-east to Mehgam, Telod and Bhagatrav in the Narmada river basin in the south and Surkotada, Dasalpur, Dholavira, Kinnarkheda, Somnath, Rojdi and Lothal in Gujarat. To the west, the Harappan civilization spread from the coast of Makran to Sutkajandor. It reached about a thousand miles northeast of Manda and Jandore.
It was initially thought that this culture had not spread east to the Indus Valley. However, the discovery of the remains of the Harappan culture along with the Purvaharappan culture from Calibagan in Rajasthan proved that notion wrong. Still, it is not certain whether the Harappan culture spread to the Ganga-Yamuna basin. In 1958, the Yamuna Basin was 19 km from Delhi. With the discovery of the remains of the Harappan civilization at a distant place called Alangipur, that notion was shattered.
In terms of extent, the Harappan culture was broader than the Nile, Euphrates, and Tigris riverine civilizations. 
The following table describes the period in which the Indus Valley Civilization or Harappan civilization existed and its various stages.
The Great Pyramids and Tombs are the hallmarks of the Nile and Euphrates river basins, while the Indus Valley Civilization is a masterpiece of meticulous urban planning. This is something not seen anywhere else in similar cultures. It was very efficient, well-directed and well-constructed. The sewerage project here can be modeled anywhere and forever. The dimensions of the bricks used for the constructions were standardized. Although there was absolute excellence in the planning of the works, technical excellence was found to be less than in other cultures.
In Harappa and Mohenjo-daro, signs have been found that cities were built one on top of the other in several layers at different times in the same place. After the destruction of the respective cities and the disappearance of the soil, it is seen that the city was rebuilt on top of its ruins. In Mohenjo-daro, ruins of various eras have been found in about nine layers. In Harappa, the ruins are scattered in six layers.
In Harappa, the city was built on the banks of a river. This should be done to facilitate business opportunities by ensuring long distance transportation. The watchtower of the fort is protected by huge man-made stones. This is to provide protection from frequent floods. Many ancient cities have been excavated here in nine tiers, one on top of the other. The new city would later have to be built on the same site as the city, which would be covered in mud and mud from the occasional flood on the Indus. Each time they tried to keep the old model intact.
Urban systems are designed and deployed in such a way that the fabric is woven with yarn and cotton. This is especially evident in the case of urban sanitation systems. They are built just outside the heart of the city. These canals along the roads run away from the city along the roads. Cities were seen as two parts. One, the high fort on the west; A market to the east of the fort. Below the market are the houses, workshops and shops of the common people. The streets of the market were all planned. Intersecting streets; The dwellings are in squares where such streets intersect. The building is made of mud bricks and bricks. The blocks are 7 x 14 x 28 cm. Are sized. <The interior floors of the buildings were covered with various materials. . All the houses have a similar design. Most are built in a courtyard and the rooms open to this courtyard. All the houses used kiln baked bricks. It can be seen that the size of these blocks is very precise.
The residences, warehouses and places of worship of the mayors are located in or near the western fort. The fort has rectangular towers and bastions. Markets were sometimes seen below or above. There was a large body of water near the market above Mohenjo-daro. The reservoir was 7 m wide and 12 m long. The maximum depth was 2.4 m. An ooze canal was specially constructed to drain the water out of the pond. The ruins of a palace were also found here.
In Harappa, a large granary measuring 220x150 feet was erected. It was divided into a few chambers measuring 50x20 feet. The warehouse was found above a fairly high floor. It is assumed that this is to protect the warehouse from flooding. There were some raised floors along with the granaries, which were supposed to be used to store grain. In the middle was a large spacious room, which must have been used for education or the residence of the priests. It was 10 meters square and had 13 windows.
You can learn more about the construction style of the fort from Harappa. The fortified wall, built of fine unbaked brick, is again covered with baked brick about six feet thick. There are occasional floors at the top of the wall. It is believed that this was to provide facilities for the soldiers. Outside the north wall of the fort are two rows of houses. It seems to be the only residence of the workers. Granaries or barns were found between the houses of the workers in piles slightly raised from the ground to store grain. These mounds are approximately 200 feet long and 150 feet wide. There are other mounds that can accommodate large ridges between mounds.
The houses in the lower market are of various sizes. These range from single-bedroom, two-bedroom apartments to multi-storey, multi-storey mansions. Most are two-story buildings. The houses all have separate bathrooms and toilets. The common denominator for all of this was reaching out to the streets. These ditches were covered with bricks or stones. Some houses have a courtyard inside and around the courtyard with a kitchen, pantry and bathroom.
Some houses are built on top of huge floors caused by debris. These floors look like heaps of clay left over from pottery. The houses had spacious verandas. Some sacred tree was planted in some houses. The well is in every home. Large reservoirs for storing water were found between most of the houses.
Another feature of the place is the systematic urban sanitation system not found in other contemporary cultures. Most houses had toilets and bathrooms. These toilets are made of bricks. The canals were connected to a main canal and taken out of the city. Soils made of soil were found in the canals. This is very important in city planning. This protects the dirty water from leaking out and mixing with the drinking water. In two-storey houses, the dirty water from the upstairs bathrooms was carried to the street drains through such pipes. Apart from this, a slope with blocks was also used for the above purpose. This system is still used in modern day Harappan homes.
There were special places to deposit garbage and other unwanted debris and sometimes the corpses of strangers. These were specially sealed and preserved. Separate containers were placed in each house to collect garbage. There was also a system to clean the sewers.
There were private wells near the houses and public wells in the streets. All of these were specially preserved. In some houses wells were seen along with bathrooms. This means that the water used for bathing was special. Special bathing ditches were constructed to prevent bathing water from flowing into the well and the bathing area was raised above the ground.
With the help of a computer, many attempts have been made to understand the physical features of the Indus Valley prisoners using skeletons obtained from Harappa and Mohenjo-daro. From the figures painted on the vessels and the walls, and from the facial expressions of the dolls, it is possible to make general impressions of their bodies and costumes. The face of the Saindhas was well-nosed and slightly elongated. You can see them in the pictures in brown. They were mostly thin. The hair was pulled back. They were wearing a kind of dress with strange embroidery. It was customary for women to comb their hair and tie it with a knot. The hair was combed with ivory to comb it. The copper plate was polished and used as a mirror.
It is clear from the pictures and dolls that jewelery was used. Necklaces, bracelets, gold and silver beads, rings and necklaces of up to three and four strands have also been found. Necklaces with more threads were connected by intermittent steps to prevent them from being tied together. Archaeologist John Marshall commented on the workmanship of the jewelry.

All the primitive civilizations of the world were based on agricultural prosperity. The large granaries of the Indus Valley Civilization claim that the Harappan culture was no different. Cultivation depended on river water or rainwater. Wheat, barley, mustard, pulses and cotton were also cultivated. Evidence has been found that wheat and barley had a better variety than the common variety. Paddy was not cultivated in the Indus river basin. But it is believed that there was paddy cultivation in Lothal and other places in Gujarat.
In Kalibangan, it is seen that kozhu was used for plowing the land for agriculture. However, it is not clear why this fat was produced. At the same time, it has not been proven that cochineal was used in Mohenjo-daro.
Along with agriculture, livestock was also active. Their wealth was calculated by the number of cattle that people had. Goats, oxen and buffaloes were domestic animals. The bulls had fungi and those that did not. Pets include dogs, cats, dogs, and poultry. Donkeys and camels were used to carry loads, but it is not known how long they were used in agriculture.
Pottery is one of the most important handicrafts in the Harappan culture. Handmade and Tikiri utensils have been found here. They also had the art of adding elegance and brilliance to the dishes. Decorative utensils have also been found. This construction skill can be seen to fade with the end of the Reformation.
Brick making was another notable occupation. Bricks baked in kilns and preferably dried bricks have been found here. What makes them unique is the size, which is strictly adhered to.
Among the metals, copper and copper alloys were first found. They used axes, machetes, knives and spears made of copper and tin. Household utensils and statues were made of bronze. The copper is believed to have come from mines in Rajasthan. Due to this, their use was very limited in Mohenjo-daro. The tin is said to have come from mines in Afghanistan. The kilns operated by burning dung and charcoal. Such mice still exist today. Gold and silver were used for jewelry. It is believed that the gold came from southern India or Maharashtra and the silver came from Afghanistan.
Jewelry making was another important occupation. The beautiful ornaments were made of blue, green, light green and red beads. The stones must have come from places like Afghanistan, Persia, Khorasan, Hirapur Pamir and Turkey. The art of engraving images and letters on low-strength stereotypes was popular. Cotton weaving and fur-based clothing were also available.
Remains of a number of children's toy manufacturing enterprises have been found there. A variety of toys were found, including dolls, animal figures, goths, clay carts, monkeys, rattlesnakes, and bird figures. Researchers believe that some of them may have belonged to goddesses. Archaeologists have suggested that most of the later sculptures depict a female figure from Harappa.
Among the sculptures, the figure of a dancer made of clay is of particular importance. The figure is naked but wrapped around his shoulders and wrists. Seeing. Some have suggested that this may have been a depiction of a tribal slave girl at the time. Similar excavated clay figurines have been found during excavations at Kullipatnam, Balochistan.
There is a lot of amazing information available about Harappan culture. Most of them are about distant trade. Surplus was sold for luxury and other necessities as there was more agricultural production than was needed at that time. It was this surplus production in the villages that sustained civilization. Precious stones, metals such as copper and tin, were imported from distant lands for the production of luxury goods and other items. From here, trees and furniture came to Mesopotamia. The products that were exported abroad were mainly made in cities. It was done in a very organized and scientific way.
The Mesopotamians bought lapis lazuli from Harappa. The Harappans collected it from Iran. . The discovery of seals, bells, and scales from Harappa during Mesopotamian exploration is cited as evidence of the aforementioned trade relationship. In Mesopotamian records, Harappan culture was referred to as Meluha. The metals were bought from other places and sold as weapons and other tools. Evidence has emerged that they were in contact with Afghanistan and Iran through the pass and other means. A good portion of the foreign trade was in jewelery. Among them are cotton cloths, ivory sculptures, combs and sandals. Animals such as peacocks and monkeys were also exported to Mesopotamia.
The specialty of this place is the making of bells for jewelery. Skilled labor was used for this. There were skilled workers who could make bells out of gold, copper, oysters, precious stones, and ivory. The brass and stone tools used to make the above were also available for sale. The bullock cart was used for commercial purposes. These vehicles had wheels. It is believed that the river was traded using ships.
The language of the Indus Valley Civilization remains an enigma even in this modern age. Although many researchers often claim to have crossed the threshold of understanding the language in the first place, there is no doubt that it has. Everyone is trying to interpret this language.
The Indus script is a small fragment of the symbols associated with the Harappan culture. Seals or seals are the most widely known evidence of Harappan culture as a script. About 4,000 stamps were received from about 60 locations. The average number of stamps on these stamps is 4.6. The largest will be 17. Two of the fourteen seals and a few blocks of ten seals have been found. About a hundred letters have only two stamps.
Numerous seals made of clay, soft stone, or copper have been found in the Indus Valley. Most of them were square and had images of animals or humans. Rarely, only images of certain types of plants are seen, and in others only text. Some researchers estimate that the number of letters in a single syllable could be as small as 250, with some letters being found in all the seals found. Fifty of these are not included in the basic alphabet. Auxiliary symbols such as vines and dots are:
In the early stages of the study of the Harappan script, comparison was popular. By comparing seals and letters with similarities to Harappan, Mesopotamian, and Sumerian culture, L.A. Vedal was the first to study the Harappan script. The Vedal Harappan script was called Indo-Sumerian. Because of the belief that the Sumerians were Aryans, he speculated that the Harappans were also of Aryan descent. However, Wadell's theory was not widely accepted by researchers, as there were fundamental problems with his arguments.
The Harappan script has been subjected to similar comparisons with Sumerian cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphics, as well as ancient hierite, Chinese, and Indian symbols. 
The Harappan seals were first published by A. A., director of the Archaeological Survey. It was Cunningham. His conclusion was that the script used in it was foreign. Subsequent excavations were enriched by the discovery of several seals, but their language remained unknown. It would have been easier to read if multilingual texts like the Rashid Shila in Egypt or the Behistun monument in Iran had been obtained from the Harappan seals. The same concept or information is not yet available in any other known language in the case of syntax.
In 1930, he received his GR at Oxford University. Hunter identified 396 different symbols in these scripts. In subsequent attempts, 23 more were isolated. A total of 13,376 symbols appeared in 2290 known templates and 113 out of a total of 419 symbols appeared only once. 47 symbols have appeared twice and about 200 have appeared many times.
Marshall and his colleagues, a British oncologist, explained that the Harappan language was hieroglyphic, with only apparent resemblance to the Cretan-Sumerian writings, and that they were in fact a completely independent script.
By the end of the 1930s, the Czechoslovakian researcher B. Hosni had argued that they had similarities with the Hirite language, and that Guinnesso had even concluded that almost all scripts were similar to the Cuneiform scripts and that some of the seals were similar to the Phoenician-Cretan scripts. Historian Diringer argues that another of Hosni's conclusions about the possibility of deriving hierite hieroglyphics 1000 years later is incorrect.
With the possible use of computers in language learning, more and more attempts were made to read such cryptography. Fr. Heras and GR Hunter were the first major attempts in this direction. Although those studies were very large and sincere, they were all weakened by the rigorous criteria set for them.
The first computer-assisted Harappan language study was conducted by Soviet-Finnish scientists. Prominent Finnish scientists were Asco Purpola and Simo Purpola. Their view was that the Harappan language was a Dravidian language written from right to left. Their findings were similar to those of Soviet scientists. These discoveries are said to be the cornerstone of the history of cryptography. Described in Swalebബ.
Apart from them, Indians Airavatham Mahadevan and S.R. Rao, Walter Ferservices, and Kinnear-Wilson, both Americans, also studied in this direction. But as a result of these studies, there was more disagreement than disagreement. Dr. S.R. Some have quoted Rao as saying that he was successful in reading the script and that it was pragmatic. Prominent linguists such as Airavatam Mahadevan considered Rao's attempt to be a mistake.  
U.S.SR The study was conducted by another committee formed under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences. Prominent among them was Korozov, who succeeded in reading the Mayan language, an ancient civilization in North America.
In India, it was Airavatam Mahadevan who subjected the Harappan language to cryptic recitation using computers. It was started in 1971. According to the Tata Institute of Ownership software, the Harappan language's successor may have been either Indo-European languages ​​containing Hittite, Sanskrit, German and English, or Elamite or Sumerian, which existed in ancient Asia Minor, or Dravidian or Munda, which existed in India.
In 1974, Kinnear and Wilson proposed another method. By selecting and studying the numerals of the numbers on the Harappan seals, it was found that they were very similar to the Sumerian numeral systems. According to him, the origin may be Dravidian. Swileb points out. The American archaeologist Dr. The Fair Services' inquiries also concluded that the Harappan language was Dravidian.
S. R. Except for Rao, other researchers, such as Korozov, Alderogi, Volpok, Alexeev, Kontratov, Ggurov, Bongard Levine, Asko Purpola, Simo Parpola, Mahadevan, and Kamil Swlebil, were all translators of the Dravidian script.  
Father Heras was the first to study the symbolism of the Harappan script, its phonetic value, and the language in which the script is represented. These were in use until BCE. 2600 to 1900.
In order to read this script, many researchers have come up with various ideas, followed their steps and presented their own conclusions. But none of these have been accepted by the general public of archaeologists. The main obstacles to unraveling the mystery of this script are:
None of these conclusions have been officially accepted by the scientific community. It should also be noted that there is still no expert committee or individuals capable of examining the validity of these conclusions.
The following is a list of these conclusions.
More recently, a study has been conducted linking the Harappan script to symbols used in the worship of Santals. Class songs reminisce about a time when beautiful forts were built and inhabited in the Indus Valley for agriculture and commerce. There are also indications that he eventually fled the land. These studies are based on the cults of the Santal peoples, although they have nothing to do with their language scripts.


There is evidence that these people were believers in God. However, it is difficult to conclude that they had any religious beliefs as they do today. Some historians believe that the Sabi religion may have survived among them. The factors that motivate them to do so are the abundance of bathrooms and artificial pools and drains found during excavations. They point to the fact that in the Sabbath religion, three times the prayers and before that baptism was required for cleansing the body, such a large cleansing facility was set up. Although there is no clear indication of religion or form of worship, it is safe to say that there was no worship or concept of God in any of these forms.
But others hold the view that Prakrit Hinduism was the religion of the Saindhas. . They believe that the seal of Pashupati belonged to the ancient Lord Shiva. And that their chief god was a one-horned bull. Their view is that this may have represented Vishnu. They must have believed that they worshiped bulls, elephants, buffaloes, rhinos, the sun, the moon, and the stars, and that the double-horned bull could represent Shiva and the elephant Ganapati, and that God would only be pleased with good harvests and glory if they were virtuous. .
Early miners believe that there were no temples or other churches in Mohenjo-daro. But some have suggested that the largest building Wheeler saw there may have been a temple. The sculptures were mainly found in the vicinity of the building. The building will be fifty-two feet long and forty feet wide. The wall is four feet thick. Spacious floor inside with two stairwells. In the middle of it was a floor that looked like an altar-like pulpit. The statue of the bearded man was found in a room inside. With this, the shape of a church is attributed to it. There are small shrines outside the houses modeled on the Kalibagan Banavali and Lothal. But places of worship in Mohenjo-daro must have been indoors or in a public place.
AD Before By the 1800s, Harappan culture seemed to be declining and slowly disappearing. According to radiocarbon dating, the Harappan period ended in the year before the Vedic period. Before By 1750. In the city order, the nature of planning has disappeared. The canals were dilapidated without any repairs. Small houses replaced large buildings. Skills in pottery declined. So for some reason this culture was slowly disappearing. Some, including John Marshall, point to the decline of the Indus Valley Civilization as the Aryan occupation. They found linguistic and archaeological evidence for this. Jonathan Mark Kenoyer thinks that by 1700 the Harappan civilization had disintegrated and was confined to small areas.
The Rig Veda constantly mentions the conflict between the two peoples. This has been visible since the beginning of the Rig Veda. The gods and the demons are in two camps in this conflict. Indra is the hero of the gods. Most of the verses in the Rig Veda are in praise of Indra, who kills all the Dasyus. It describes the overthrow of the barren kings and the breaking up of their strongholds. The Rig Veda gives two adjectives to Indra: Purbhidha and Purandara. The Sanskrit word Pur means fort and center of power, and he who destroys them is Purandaran. According to Mortimer Wheeler, the Rig Veda refers to the conquest of the fortified cities by the natives. Researchers point out that these conflicts are also evident in the Mahabharata.  
Although many verses in the Rig Veda refer to the wars between the two Aryan tribes, archaeologists Bridget and Raymond write that the tribes found a fundamental unity in their struggles against slaves and slaves. According to A.L., the slaves and slaves who survived the war were tribals from Punjab and the north-west. Basham comments skeptically.
Until now, the forts mentioned in the Rig Veda were thought to be imaginary. But the excavations show the opposite. Mortimer Wheeler, B.C., Royh, and R.C. Majumdar, et al.
References such as "Fearing you, black natives left their possessions without fleeing the war" indicate that the barbaric Harappans fled due to Aryan occupation. The borough cites several such examples in the Scriptures.
Marshall and McKay, who excavated in Mohenjo-daro, provide evidence of the massacre they believe took place there. Four bodies were found in the eastern DK area, where they appeared to have died while trying to flee from the attackers. Circumstances indicate that the nearby well and its surroundings were used until the day of the tragedy. Thirteen skeletons, including those of men and women, were found in a house in the HR area. Many of them were in a state of wearing jewelry. The wound on one's head was 146 mm deep. Similar symptoms were seen in other skulls. In 1964, a few more skeletons were found unearthed in the HR area without being buried as usual.  
Excavators in another city, Chanhu-Daro, found buildings built on high foundations to protect against flooding. The first three stages were similar to those in Harappa. Their bases were short in height. It is concluded that all of them may have been destroyed in the flood and therefore the higher foundations formed later. But these buildings looked incomplete, as if they had been stopped during construction.
The next stage is the Jukar culture, which is not associated with Harappa. The parts of the burial culture found to the south of the Harappan fort are incompatible with the Harappan culture and are markedly different. . Historians consider this to be the post-Harappan period. The pottery found here and the paintings on it were so different that it was doubtful that they belonged to a people outside the Harappan region. This refers to the intrusion of some foreign way of life into the Harappan settlements.
Recent research has shown that the bodies were not the cause of the massacre but of those who died of disease. Skeletal studies have shown that deaths are caused by diseases such as anemia, which are caused by blockages or other causes.
According to another group of researchers, the end of the Harappan civilization was due to climate change. They theorize that the continuing floods or the ensuing deforestation may have contributed to the decline of Harappa's prominence and the subsequent exodus of people.
In 1964, Robert L. Reix, George F. Dailes proposed the catastrophic flooding of the Indus River as the cause of the destruction of the Harappan civilization. They were preceded in death by hydrologist MR. Sahni expressed the same view. Another group of historians thinks that the Indus River, which overflowed its banks, could not have been the catastrophe of Harappan culture, as buildings and other structures in Harappa were built in anticipation of their favorite river, which floods every summer.
But Rex-Dails theory was different. B.C.E. The theory is that there was a strong earthquake in the Indus Valley around 1500, which caused the river to overflow into the Mohenjo-daro and wipe out its culture. This is called lake theory. Prof. Sahni theorized that the natural dams in the early reaches of the river had burst due to landslides and floods. This is known as the Dam Theory.
But these theories can only lead to the downfall of Mohenjo-daro. Hydrological theories do not provide an adequate answer as to how Harappa, as well as Lothal and Calibagan, which were inaccessible to the waters of the Indus River — about three hundred miles away — were destroyed. According to Dails, there are no signs of flooding in Harappa. On the contrary, they seem to be empty in an instant. This situation is in line with the theory of aggression.
Most researchers believe Mohenjo-daro was devastated by the floods. But some historians believe that the Aryans were responsible for this. Dr. is one of them. Malathi Shendje. They point to certain events mentioned in the Rig Veda as evidence. In the Rig Veda, it is said that Indra broke a mountain which was blocking the flow of water to the seven rivers and let the water flow. It is said that Indra created a rift in the dam with his diamond weapon and that the water from it later flowed into the forts and forts and caused floods. There are indications of selectmen guarding the dams and of killing them. This is interpreted as an attempt to exterminate the stagnant water and eliminate the enemy.
There is ample evidence of the later Harappan burial culture that originated in these places. Based on the evidence from the Swat Valley, it can be assumed that they were confined to agriculture and livestock and lived a life devoid of the old-fashioned luxuries. The pottery of their time does not look as painted and polished as before. On the contrary, they are found in gray and with vessels believed to belong to the clergy. It refers to the fusion of two different cultures.
The Aryans were nomadic herdsmen who were not much culturally advanced. The Harappans who may have encountered them were those who traded with the city dwellers and various nations, who were cultured and who built great forts to protect their people. The Aryans, who entered the arena with horses, must have been able to easily subdue the Saindhas. But they were later unable to assimilate the virtues of Harappan culture. The Cemetery Harappan culture shows that. It is an approach that agrees with the descriptions in the Vedas: although the accepted picture remains the same today.
John Marshall 
Coastal areas of the Indus River. Satellite image. The Himalayas of origin can be seen covered with white snow

