India: Part of a Series on Politics and Government
National Fronts Left Front National Democratic Alliance United Progressive Alliance 
Panchayat Raj or Panchayat Raj is the decentralized system of rural power in India. Panchayati Raj is the practical implementation of the concept of Gramaswaraj envisioned by Gandhiji and the vision of Poorna Swaraj through Gramaswaraj. The concept of "Swaraj" was inspired by Gandhiji's declaration that the ultimate goal was to make every Indian village self - sufficient, not just the British leaving India.
On decentralization, the Panchayat Raj Plan was formulated in India as per the recommendations submitted by the Balwant Rai Mehta Committee. The Panchayat Raj system of India was started on October 2, 1959 in Nagaur, Rajasthan. Nehru inaugurated the Panchayat Raj administration in Kerala on January 18, 1960 at Ernakulam. The Panchayat Raj system came into existence in the whole of India under the 73rd Amendment to the Constitution.
The 1992 amendment to the Constitution gave constitutional recognition to the Gram Sabhas, the assembly of registered voters in all the panchayat and village wards. Through this a three tier panchayat system of Grama Panchayat, Block Panchayat and District Panchayat came into existence. In these constituencies, it is mandatory to elect representatives once in five years. Reservation was ensured for women and backward Scheduled Castes. Reaching power to the people and reaching out to the common man is a difficult task in a country as densely populated as India, but we have achieved it. Kerala and Karnataka allocate 40 and 34 per cent of the state budgets respectively for the functioning of the panchayats. This is a model for other states.
The primary objective of the Local Government Institutions is to implement the principle of "Power to the People through Decentralization" so that comprehensive development can be completed with the participation of the people.
The Central Government has directed the State Governments to make the functioning of the Gram Sabhas more efficient. The directive has been issued by the Central Panchayat Raj Ministry. Special programs and schemes should be implemented to strengthen the gram sabhas. The head of the gram sabha should not be the spokesperson of the government. The head of the church should be the person who brings the voice of the people before the rulers. The Center also directed the Gram Sabha authorities to clearly define their duties and responsibilities and inform them. It is suggested that the functioning of the Gram Sabha Secretariats should also be clarified. Their operation must be beyond local pressures. Gram sabhas should be fully involved in the planning and implementation of rural development projects. The proposal also says that the presence of gram sabhas in agro-human and social sectors should be increased.
