Ambika Chakraborty was a Bengali Indian freedom fighter and revolutionary. He later became a member of the Communist Party of India and the West Bengal Legislative Assembly.
Ambika Chakraborty's father's name was Nan Kumar Chakraborty. He was a member of the Chittagong Yugantar Party. Participated in the Chittagong Armed Forces Raid led by Surya Sen. On April 18, 1930, he led a group of revolutionaries who destroyed the entire communication system in Chittagong. On April 22, 1930, he was seriously wounded in a clash with British troops at Jalalabad. But was able to escape. A few months later, police arrested him from his hiding place and sentenced him to death. The sentence was later commuted to prison cell in Port Blair.
Chakrabarty joined the Communist Party of India in 1946 after his release from cellular prison. In the same year he was elected to the Bengal Provincial Assembly. In 1952, he was elected to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from Tollygunge constituency to the Communist Party of India. He died in a car accident in Kolkata in 1962.
Colonization · British East India Company · Plassey · Boxer War · Anglo-Mysore Wars · Anglo-Maratha Wars · First Anglo-Sikh War · Chittagong Armory Attack Case · Second Anglo-Sikh War British India · French India Port
Indian Nationalism · Swaraj · Gandhian Way · Satyagraha · Hindu Nationalism · Muslim Nationalism in India · Indigenous Socialism Khilafat Movement
Polygar 1857 · Partition of Bengal · Revolutionaries · Delhi-Lahore Conspiracy · The Indian Sociologist · Sedetious conspiracy · Non-regret satyagrahannal · Jallianwala Bagh Massacre · noncooperation · patakasatyagraham · bardeali i · Simon Commission · The Nehru Report · purnnasvaraj · uppusatyagraham · vattamesasam'melanannal · Government of India Act , 1935 · Legion Freies Indien · Cripps Mission · Quit India Movement · Indian National Army · Indian Naval Struggle · Coup · Provisional Government of India
Indian National Congress · Anushilan Samiti · Jugantar · India House · Berlin Committee · Ghadar Party · Home Rule · Khudai Khidmatgar · Hindustan Socialist Republican Association · Swaraj Party · Indian Independence League · Azad Hind · More
Yashwantrao Holkar Mangal Pandey Rai Ahmad Nawaz Khan Kharal Jhansi Rani Bala Gangadhar Thilakan Gopal Krishna Gokhale Dadabhai Navaroji Madam Kam Shyamji Krishna Varma Lalpayal Lal Lal Badshah Khan ബു Abul Kalam Azad · Surya Sen · Chandrasekhar Azad c. Rajagopalachari Bhagat Singh Sarojini Naidu Purushottam Das Tandon Thankuturi Prakasham Alluri Sitaramaraj Muhammad Ali Jinnah Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Subhas Chandra Bose Jawaharlal Nehru Mahatma Gandhi More
Cabinet Mission · Law of Independence നം Partition of India · Political Unification ഭരണ Constitution of India Republic
