He was the favorite singer of MS Baburaj to compose music as a Mappilappattu singer. V. Muhammad. From the sixties till his death in 1995, AV Kerala contributed over a hundred Mappila songs that amazed the Malayalees. He won the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy Award in 1984. More than 60 village phone records have been released by companies such as HMV & Columbia.
Located in Tirurangadi, Malappuram district. V. Homeland of Muhammad. Father: Kunjimoithin was a boatman in the deep yard. Mother: Mammathumma. A. was the only brother of two sisters. V. Muhammad, however, has other siblings in his father's second wife. Although he was an early Congress activist in Tirurangad, he sang for all political movements. When he went to sing in the movie 'Azhimukham', Baburaj came back after realizing that his mother was dead. The song was sung with his own. He performed Hajj in 1994 and died on May 12, 1995 at his residence in Tirurangadi. V. Muhammad passed away. He was 63 years old when he died of a heart attack. He was buried in the church in the middle of Tirurangadi

These are the unique 'Mappilappattukal' which created a stir in the emotional sphere of Muslim life in the wedding houses and streets of Kerala in the fifties and nineties. V. The singer Muhammad was made a favorite of the audience.
A. is from a conservative family. V. Muhammad was born. His father was Kunjumoitheen, who used to sing and play the harmonium. Mother and grandmother. During the day, AV debuted in the music industry with the song Nishani Alam Paripalaka Sahaya.
The job was a hotel business and he studied up to 8th class and sang and wrote while still in school. But he did not complete his schooling. He went to Sree Mukhathe in Karnataka to run a hotel ... and after that he settled in the country years later ... while singing at wedding parties and at intersections of political parties, he met Baburaj through the songwriter KT Moideen and it became the trinity of Mappila Malayalam. Most of the more than 60 songs sung by AV in Baburaj's music. KT Moyteen and KT Muhammad were the best works of the brothers
A. V. Muhammad is remembered for his voice that never dies ... All the songs were super hits that could not be said to be the best of AV, who has become ingrained in the minds of the Malayalees as a star that shines like the colors of the sky.
The song starts with "Paran Vidhi Chumma Vittu Chongil Nadukunna" which is a beautiful sculpture from the cultural language of Arabic Malayalam. 

"Margamay judgment simply leave the ceankil natakkunnasuja'att We nattilekathayentennarivuntea tomorrow kitakkunnakhabarenn the stunning home of the song at home on the couch, separated namukkkattilarati mannancelil go to sleep on us at the kallanilayum criteria and tanniratuncertt manninale'atavakkum gap in the barilekanamerum how rubbish it mitemaramatum grave bahujearile istajanannale from pirinnkattilerippeakumpealurravarellam liver break-kkarayunnuntakalumpealakalumpeal grhattilepenn say ulakattil tani'enikkarenn. - "
Like that 
"Mutholi Ya Rasool, the cause of the whole world ... Adichothi Purana Bitholi Ya Rasool ... The time when the terrible polytheism reigns, at a time when strong humanity is rooted ...."
This is a song that describes the greatness of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) who uprooted polytheism. 
The song that starts with Aminabi Pete Muhammadu Yarasoole makes you feel like listening to a drama song ...
The wedding song that starts with "Atalam Nabiyare kalyaname ..." was heard regularly at wedding venues at that time.
"Yusuf Nabi Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi Yusuf Nabi The Prophet Ibrahim (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him) found his son Ishmael.
This hymn is the story of the request of the aged Prophet Abraham to sacrifice his son Ishmael as a result of his prayers. 
Poomanavatti Manikya Kallin's Wedding Song
Qutuboli Sayyidalavi Rallyalla, the sweet flower of the door of Maula Nabi in Mambura Poo Makkah ...
The girl who has to say it over and over again with her eyes closed 
There was a time when Baburaj broke into the Mappilappattu branch by giving popular music that stood out with its film song style. At that time, Mappila songs were more popular in Muslim weddings and wedding halls than in weddings. Baburaja composed the music for most of the songs immortalized by Mappilappattu singer AV Muhammad. 'Leave the fate unfulfilled', 'Do you forget man', 'To the ancient myth', 'Day is the night of sin', 'Destroy your sins', 'Bismi and Hamd and Salat', and stand out in beauty. . ' 'Mutholi because of the world.' AV Mohammad immortalized all the songs in Babukka's magical music.
The songs composed by Babuka were the main attraction of many plays of the time based on Islamic stories. Dr. The songs in Usman-KG Unneen's plays 'Aashichapole Nadakula', 'Poocheti Poovinte Mottu', 'Alankarapadavil Kaliyadum Njan' and 'Doore Doore Duniyavinnakkare' are still popular in Eastern Ernakulam. Along with PNM Alikoya, PM Kasim and SM Koya, the Malabar people have witnessed the growth of Baburaj's talent in the theaters and choirs. The festivities of the day became a favorite when Babuka's slender long arms rested on the harmonium boxes. His success was due to the fact that Babuka was able to fulfill the musical dreams of his contemporaries in the past.
Pakalil Nishani Alam Paripalaka Intisana Malakke Samadi Noona Takdeer Kalam Prasthana ...
"Rahmanalla rahimumalla Razzaq yallagaphurum ra'uphum rajadhirajanumayavan you ... You are undoubtedly a caracara, aloes, and we shall reign forever .Therefore akatikal paraparanayavane is undoubtedly a reflection takarttalitenam tag papamallasubha praise ravunarttan ettiyallapakala pukal van in the morning on the day of ejamanan arhanallapratiphala niyallatarunimani Bibi Khadija Malika varavat arumappu to alter the Messenger, the Prophet's coming to see the top of the Taha tirutaha keriyirunnu Hopefully, Asha Poon will put it in her heart. "
Indira, l. R Eeswari, Molly Prabhavathi Jayabharathi and many others have sung with AV.
Wife: Nafisa. Children: Rashid, Mariam, Subaida, Rafi (Printing Technician - Saudi, Zeenat, Shahar Banu, Sarah
