Coordinates: 9 ° 38′24 ″ N 76 ° 21′35 E / 9.64000 N 76.35972 E / 9.64000; 76.35972
Thanneermukkam is a village in the Kanjikuzhi block of Cherthala taluk, Alappuzha district in the Indian state of Kerala. The panchayat is spread over the villages of Thanneermukkam North and Kokothamangalam and covers an area of ​​18.9 sq. Km. There is area. Panchayat Headquarters: Thanneermukkam Jetty. The bund built across the Vembanad Lake is famous here.
Vembanad Lake is an agricultural village situated on the banks of the Vembanad Lake.
It is believed that the place got its name 'Thannirmukkam' because it is geographically surrounded by water or the face of a lake. 'Water face' may have evolved into 'water face' through discourse. At the Sreepathbhanabha Temple in Travancore, the Namboodiris, who used to travel by water from the north for Murajapat, used to go down to the water to rest and collect fresh water. It is believed that the name Thannirmukkam came to mean a place where clean drinking water is available.
Thannirmukkam was part of the Karappuram region which was earlier under the rule of the King of Kochi. When the King of Cochin invaded Karappuram in the 16th century with the help of the Parangis, the feudal lords inevitably accepted the supremacy of the King of Cochin. In 1640, though it was completely part of the kingdom of Cochin, the 72 ladies of the land continued to rule voluntarily. In 1753, the Travancore army, led by Ramayana Dalava, invaded Karappuram on the pretext that the King of Cochin had indirectly aided the local kings of Chembakassery, Thekkumkoor and Vadakkumkoor in their resistance against Marthanda Varma. In this attack, known as the Battle of Purakattu, Karapuram was completely captured. The king of Cochin ceded Karappuram to Travancore as per the agreement reached at Mavelikkara.
Thanneermukkam is a village that experiences a significant impact on the landscape and life of the people of Vembanad Lake. Wetlands are generally wetlands, tidal areas and floodplains. Coconut cultivation is prominent here as it is rich in mud and sandy soils. Small scale paddy, vegetables, banana and cashew are also cultivated. Silicon-rich Thannirmukkam has been placed on the resource map of Kerala.
As it is the narrowest part of the Vembanad Lake, the bund is built on the waterfront to make the Kuttanad paddy fields sessile. During the summer, when the shutters are lowered, salt water separates fresh water on the south side of the lake and fresh water on the south side. This distinction is visible in most parts of the panchayat. Waterlogging is another area where drinking water is in short supply. Pools are the main source of fresh water here.
Thanneermukkam is a leading panchayat in the coir industry. The main industry is coir production. Coir factories were started by the British in this area. At present 9 coir industry co-operative societies are functioning here. Although the silica rich mineral sand obtained from the panchayat is of critical industrial importance, mining and consumption have not been adequately developed. White mussels from Vembanad Lake are another natural resource of industrial importance. There are 4 small industrial units in the panchayat which are active in 4 industrial co-operative societies and manufacture shoes, umbrellas, books, candles, matches and fodder.
In the past, the dam was an important center of the water transport sector. It was once the hub of the water transport network connecting Ernakulam, Vaikom, Kottayam, Changanassery, Chengannur and Kollam. There was also an inn on the waterfront for travelers to rest.
Kokothamangalam St. Thomas Church is located in Thanneermukkam Grama Panchayat and is one of the 7 Christian churches established by Marthomashliha in Kerala. It is believed that St. Thomas reached Kokothamangalam via the Vembanad backwaters and stayed here for a year and baptized more than 1600 people. In the book 'Letter from Malabar' A.D. It is recorded that St. Thomas founded the church at Kokothamangalam in 52 AD. Thanneermukkam Thiruraktha Devalayam, Kannankara St. Xavier's Church, Chalil Tiruhrudayappally, Varanadu Bhagavathy Temple, Chali Narayanapuram Temple, Kandankulangara Temple and Ilanjamkulangara Temple are also located in Thanneermukkam.
Three high schools and two UP schools. Schools also have seven LPs. There are 12 educational institutions in the panchayat, including schools. Three colleges in Cherthala Taluk provide higher education facilities.
Hospitals, Post Offices, Co-operative Societies, Banks, Village Offices, Panchayat Offices, Public Libraries and Thanneermukkam Project Office are some of the important public institutions here.
Alappuzha · Arukutty · Aroor · Chengannur · Cherthala ഞ്ഞ Kanjikuzhi · Kallumala · Kayamkulam · Kokothamangalam · Komalapuram · Mavelikkara ഹമ്മ Muhammed Harippad · Battlefield
