The Tempest is a 1611 play by English playwright and poet William Shakespeare. Tempest's first definition of a swan song is one in which the universal poet imparts an extraordinary charm to any art. Theatrical experts point out that Shakespeare's farewell song from the world of drama resonates with the protagonist Prospero's farewell to the magical world.
Tempest is considered to be the last play written by Shakespeare. The theme of the play is a series of experiences experienced by royal travelers on an magical island in the aftermath of a shipwreck following a storm. An English ship wrecked near the Bermuda Islands and its crew returned home after spending a winter on various islands. Reports of their unexpected escape made headlines in England at the end of the 16th century. This incident may have been the main motivation for composing Tempest. We see Shakespeare's brilliance in shaping a play to be enjoyed by audiences of all ages with a theme that would only have contemporary significance. The history of an exiled scholar and magician may have been traced back to Shakespeare's legends and Italian tales. This ruler also had a beautiful daughter. The sage planned to marry her off to the son of an enemy king and succeeded. Surviving this drama, the playwright from Stratford, on the banks of the Ivon River, temporarily brings the protagonists to the magical island's background and gives them a marvelous work of flesh and blood. The wise man planned to marry her off to the son of an enemy king and succeeded. Surviving this drama, the playwright from Stratford, on the banks of the Ivon River, temporarily brings the protagonists to the magical island's background and gives them a marvelous work of flesh and blood. The wise man planned to marry her to the son of an enemy king and succeeded. Surviving this drama, the playwright from Stratford, on the banks of the Ivan River, temporarily brings the protagonists to the magical island's background and gives them a marvelous work of flesh and blood.
Tempest is the only Shakespearean play to date. This is one of his short plays. Alonso, King of Naples, whose ship was wrecked in a storm of natural disasters, his son Ferdinand, Sebastian, Alonso's brother, and Antonio, who overthrew his brother Prospero, and Antonio, who prospered as Duke of Milan. Prospero, meanwhile, told his daughter how Antonio had seized power twelve years before he was expelled from his studies and meditation. Miranda, then three years old, and her father were thrown into a boat by the enemy. Gonzalo, a Neapolitan nobleman, provided food and clothing and rescued them. After a long period of immersion in magical studies, Prospero had the good fortune of surrendering the title of nobleman to his brother's hands and finally surrendering to him. Gonzalo took care to bring his valuable books to the boat as well. They finally arrived safely on an island. It was once the abode of the sorceress Sikarax. She is not alive today. A group of sailors pushed her pregnant there. The inhabitants of the place are the strange creature Caliban, who gave birth to her, and the magical form of Ariel, whom she imprisoned. Prospero's attempt to cultize his enslaved Caliban failed. He later released Ariel from the custody of Sikarax. But Ariel was obliged to serve him. Ariel's hope is Prospero's promise that he will be gradually released. Alonso, Ferdinand, and Antonio were brought to the island by a storm raised by Prospero, who had a good understanding of the art of magic during a Jupiter trip to the island. After several incidents, Prospero's brother repents and returns to power. Meanwhile, Ferdinand and Miranda fell in love. Prospero tests Ferdinand to see if his feelings for Miranda are genuine. The other characters also faced many ordeals. The sailors and crew met each other. According to the captain and crew, the wrecked ship was miraculously damaged. Prospero announces that he will leave for Naples the next morning, where he will return to Milan after the Ferdinand-Miranda wedding. He apologized for the sales made by the Caliban and gave Ariel the freedom he had longed for.
Tempest does not have any theatrical action that rocks the stage, but it has many elements that entertain all types of audiences. Dancing with beautiful songs, amazing visuals from within the confines of the theater of the day, comedic performances by Caliban and a drunken cook and clown, Ferdinand-Miranda's love story, and the genius and kindness that controls and directs them all.
Tempest is an experience not only for the audience but also for the reader. The wonderful sense of imagination, wandering in front of the reader, kavitamadhuri maintains a memorable bhangiyeate, repentance, mappukeatukkal and ideas, and to give priority to tattvacintapad'dhati, what is the difference between the slave owner announced a relationship with eriyal- preaspereayute kalibanmareatulla, just like eriyalineyum kalibaneyum kathapatraviskaram proclaiming the wonders of the new world of its own, even if the reader punarvayanayil navyamaya pakarunnunt ambiance. The visuals and thought process that affect the audience and the reader alike make this work even more popular. "Our revels are now ended" Literary critics have suggested that Shakespeare's retirement from the theatrical arena may have been a part of Prospero's farewell to the magical world. There are those who argue that the fact is not so. There are various arguments that the above passage is Shakespeare's final judgment on the fleeting life of man, and that it is Shakespeare's gift to his own theater. Ferdinand-Miranda still has to beat the wedding greetings added during the dance party that prepares the magicians who appear in the play to entertain them. They are so beautiful. In the first scene of the fourth act, lines 156, 157 and 158 are added. We are such stuff / As dreams are made on and our little life / Is rounded with a sleep is very popular in Shakespearean monadies about instability. These verses are also considered as a tribute to the idea of ​​'time' which makes nothing else stand out.
