England national football is the team that represents England in international football. The team is governed by The Football Association, which dominates football in England. They share the reputation of being the first football team in the world with Scotland. The world's first international football match was played in 1872 between England and Scotland. Their home ground is Wembley Stadium in London. Fabio Capello is the head coach of the England national football team.
England is one of the countries that won the Football World Cup. They won in 1966. In the last match, they defeated West Germany 4-2. Since then, their best performance at the World Cup has come in fourth place in 1990. They reached the semi-finals of the UEFA European Championships in 1968 and 1996. Before the end of the British Home Championship in 1984, they had won 54 titles.
Scotland are England's traditional enemies. The football feud between them began in the 1870s. The series against Scotland continued until the late 1980s. Matches against other major teams later gained prominence. Many important matches were played against Argentina and Germany.
The England national football team is one of the oldest football teams in the world. The English team was formed along with Scotland. The match between England and Scotland took place on 5 March 1870 under the auspices of the Football Association. Instead, on November 30, 1872, a match was arranged between them by the Scottish football authorities. The match took place at Hamilton Crescent, Scotland. Since these two teams are not under one committee, the match is considered to be the first international football match in the world. England began playing in the British Home Championship over the next 40 years, along with teams from Scotland, Wales and Ireland.
Initially England did not have a permanent ground. In 1906, they became members of FIFA. During the 1908 tour of Central Europe, they began playing matches with other teams. Wembley Stadium opened in 1923. It became their permanent home ground. Disagreements between England and FIFA led to their expulsion from FIFA in 1928. England then rejoined FIFA in 1946. As a result, they did not participate in the World Cup until 1950. In the first round of the 1950 World Cup, England lost 1-0 to the United States. Their first home defeat was against a non-United Kingdom team on 21 September 1949 at Goodison Park in the Republic of Ireland. The defeat was 0-2. They lost to Hungary in 1953 at Wembley Ground against a team not belonging to the British Isles. The loss was 6-3. Instead, Hungary won the match 7-1 in Budapest. It was England's worst defeat ever. After the match, Syed Owen said, "That match was like playing with someone from space."
At the 1954 World Cup, Ivor Brodys scored two goals in one match. He became the first English player to score two goals in a match in the final round of the World Cup. That exciting match was against Belgium. That match ended in a 4-4 draw. Nat Loft House, another England player, also scored two goals in the same match. But it was only 30 minutes after Brodis scored two goals that Lofthouse achieved that feat. England reached the quarter-finals for the first time. But there they lost to Uruguay and were eliminated from the World Cup.
In 1946 Walter Winterbottom was appointed England's first full-time manager, but until 1963, when Alf Ramsey was appointed manager, the team was chosen by another group. The 1966 World Cup was hosted by England. Alf Ramsey's England beat West Germany 4-2 in the final to win the World Cup. England's Jeff Hurst scored a famous hat-trick in that match. England qualified directly for the 1970 World Cup in Mexico as current champions. They reached the quarter-finals but lost to West Germany there. They were 2-0 up in that match but lost 2-3 after extra time. They did not qualify for the 1974 and 1978 World Cups. Under manager Ron Greenwood, they qualified for the 1982 World Cup in Spain. They lost not a single match but were eliminated in the second round. Under manager Bobby Robson, they reached the quarter-finals of the 1986 World Cup and finished fourth at the 1990 World Cup.
England had four managers in a very short period of time in the 1990s. Robinson's successor was Graham Taylor. But they failed to qualify for the 1990 World Cup. Under coach Terry Venables at the 1996 EuroCup in England, they performed at their best Eurocup. They reached the semi-finals of that series. He resigned for financial reasons and was succeeded by Glenn Hodge. He also resigned after the 1998 World Cup over issues unrelated to football. They were eliminated in the second round of that World Cup. After Hoddle's departure, Kevin Keegan took charge of England and represented them in the 2000 Euro Cup. But he also resigned immediately as the team's performance was very poor.
Between 2001 and 2006 Sven Goran Eriksson took over as coach of England. Eriksson was England's first foreign coach. Controversial events about his personal life made him famous among the people. Under him, England played in the quarter-finals of the 2002 and 2006 World Cups. He lost just 5 matches. Under him, England finished fourth in the world rankings. His contract was extended by the Football Association for another two years. But he was eliminated after the 2006 World Cup.
Steve McLaren has been appointed head coach. However, they did not qualify for the 2008 Euro Cup. He resigned on November 26, 2007. McLaren has been the manager for the shortest time since taking over as manager in 1946. Real Madrid's A.C. Former Milan coach Fabio Capello has taken over as England's head coach. His first match was against Switzerland on February 6, 2008. England won the match 2-1. Under Capello, England won all but one of the 2010 World Cup qualifiers. England qualified for the World Cup with two games to go, with a 5-1 victory over Croatia at Wembley. This was the first such achievement in the history of English football.
But the 2010 World Cup was a disappointment for them. Even after the first two games, questions arose about their team spirit, tactics and ability to cope with stress. They advanced to the second round but lost 4-1 to Germany there. It was their worst defeat in a World Cup.
For the first 50 years of the England team's history, their home matches were played across the country. They used to play football on cricket grounds before moving to football clubs. The Empire Ground was built in Wembley, Brent, London. The stadium was built for the British Empire Exhibition. It was here that England played their first match against Scotland. For the next 27 years there were only games against Scotland. It later became known as Wembley Stadium. In the 1950s it became the permanent home ground of England. In 2001, there was a plan to completely renovate the stadium and the stadium was demolished. At that time England played their matches in many stadiums in the country.
The ground was heavily criticized for its pitch. The problem was that the pitch did not meet the intended standards. It still took a lot of money to replace it. Recent match results indicate that the pitch is much improved now.
BBC Radio 5 Live broadcasts all of England's games with eyewitness accounts. From the 2008-09 season to the 2011-12 season, ITV broadcasts live qualifiers and friendly matches in England and abroad. Until June 2009, Setanta Sports broadcast live qualifiers and friendly matches outside the country. The FA is currently searching for replacements as there is no one to broadcast the matches. This was the first time a match in England had been televised in such a manner. 4.99 and 11.
In Australia, Setanta Sports Australia broadcasts England's matches and selected matches outside the country.
White shirts, navy blue shorts and white socks are the traditional host colors of England. She has also been wearing white shorts at some of her home tournaments since 2001. David Blanche has been designing England clothing since 2005.
England beat Slovakia 4-0 in their first match at Wembley on 28 March 2009 in a full white dress designed by Umbro. They started using that dress as a substitute for their traditional dress. In the match against Ukraine on October 10, 2009, they wore traditional attire but lost.
The dress traditionally used in England when playing outside the country consisted of red shirts, white shorts and red socks. They didn’t need that outfit until they played for a team that was not part of the United Kingdom. From 1945 to 1952, England wore blue at foreign competitions. In 1966, England's foreign clothing consisted of gray shirts, shorts, and socks. England played against Bulgaria, Germany and Georgia in this outfit. But since the fan support was for the traditional red dress, they again opted for the traditional red dress as a foreign dress. When new versions of the red dress were released, they were also used in host competitions for publicity.
In some cases England also used a third type of clothing. England wore a light blue shirt, shorts and socks for the third time against Czechoslovakia at the 1970 World Cup. They also have a third dress similar to the Swedish dress. The dress consists of a yellow shirt, socks and blue shorts. They used it in 1973 against Czechoslovakia, Poland and Italy. Between 1986 and 1992, England had a third pale blue dress. It was very rarely worn.
Following the 2009 awareness campaign on colorectal cancer, the England players' charitable donations to international competitions are donated by the Team England Football Charity.
England were in Group C of the 2010 FIFA World Cup in the December 4, 2009 elections. They drew 1-1 in their first game on June 12 against the United States. The match against Algeria on June 18 ended in a goalless draw. They beat Slovenia 1-0 on 23 June. With that, they advanced to the next round as runners-up in Group C. In the second round, they lost 4-1 to Germany on June 27 and were eliminated from the World Cup. It was their heaviest defeat in the World Cup. FIFA has described England's worst performance at the World Cup. They finished 13th in that World Cup. Their previous worst performance was 11th in 1958.

First written is England's score
First written England score.

Following is England's squad for a friendly against France on 17 November 2010.
The following information was last updated on November 27, 2010.
* = Removed due to injury
The following is a list of players who have been recalled to the England squad for the last twelve months.
This football-related article is a stub. Please help improve this article or section by expanding it.
