The Regulating Act of 1773 was a law passed by the British Parliament to improve and further control the operations of the East India Company. The act marked the beginning of the British Parliament's control over the running of the company.
Until Robert Clive Plassey's victory in the war, the three presidencies of East India were ruled by a council of merchants. The Council, which had no prior experience in governing the country, had to take over the administration of a large country, particularly the wealthy state of Bengal, which provoked many reactions in Britain. Until then the company, which had been providing financial assistance to the Government of England, had gradually reached the point of liability. In 1772, the then Prime Minister, Lord North, was approached for a loan to escape this situation. Given this opportunity, the company commissioned a committee to look into the matter. The report of this committee led to the enactment of the Regulating Act in 1773. It was the first act passed by the British Parliament to abolish the corrupt rule of the Company and to improve governance in India. Under the Act, all correspondence of the Company on civil, military and revenue matters was monitored by the British Government.
The first Governor-General was appointed by Parliament, but later appointments were left to the Company. 
Although the Supreme Court was ordered to be set up in Calcutta, the jurisdiction of the court and the departments to be dealt with were not fixed. This caused a lot of trouble. The council persuaded the zamindars not to obey the Supreme Court. In 1779 this rivalry reached its climax. The Supreme Court charged the Governor-General and the council members with contempt of court. To avoid such ambiguity, the 1781 Amendment removed the Governor-General and members of the Council from the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. The Governor-General did not have the power of veto and could not settle disputes between councilors. These shortcomings were later rectified in the Pitts India Act.
