Holidays Punjabi Kumawani Mughals Kashmiri Sindhi Rajasthani Uttar Pradesh
Assamese • Meghalaya • Manipuri ാഗ Naga Sikkimese • Tripuri Arunachal
Andhra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil, Hyderabad, Udupi, Mangalore, Saraswati, Mangalorean Catholic
Bengali Oriya Bihari Bhojpuri
Goan, Gujarati, Marathi, Malwani, Konkani, Parsi 
Indian Chinese പ്പാ Nepali • Jain ംഗ്ല Anglo-Indian • Chettinad Fast Food
Main Dishes Sweets • Breads • Drinks ന Snacks Spices • Tips
Handi Kadai / Cheenachatti • Tawa Uruli • Others
History • Etiquette • Indian Chefs • Cookbook: Cuisine of India
Punjabi cuisine generally refers to the cuisine of the Punjab region, which includes the northwestern part of India and the eastern part of Pakistan. This cuisine includes some parts of western Pakistan. This includes vegetarian and non-vegetarian diets. The home-cooked food and the food prepared in the restaurants here have very different tastes. Butter and cream are widely used in restaurants. But the same food that is made at home is more dependent on wheat‌. The Punjab region itself has a variety of tastes. The people of Amritsar love stuffed parathas and dairy products. The production of good quality dairy products is also high in this region. Some specialties are exclusively from Punjab‌. Some of these are Ma Di Dal and Sarom de Sag.
Various Punjabi dishes- Gobi Aloo, Sikh Kebab, Beef Katai
Salted Mint Lassi from Punjab
Mint Paratha in Punjab


Indraprastha, Hastinapur, Tomar, Rajput, Chahan, Prithvirajaraso, Islamic invasions of India, Delhi Sultanate, Khilji dynasty, Tughlaq dynasty, Lodhi dynasty First Indian War of Independence in 1857 ീഷ് British Raj വൈ Viceroy of India · Independence Struggle of India വി Partition of India · New Delhi
Neighborhoods · Districts · District Centers · New Delhi · Municipal Corporation · Development Authority · Municipal Council · Cantonment Board · Connaught Place · Lajpat Nagar · Chanakyapuri · Noida ാസ Ghaziabad Chandni Chowk Ford Down Bridge
Sansad Bhavan · Rashtrapati Bhavan · Tin Murti Bhavan · Lotus Temple · Qutb Minar · Jama Masjid · India Gate · Vijay Chowk · Rajghat · Rajpath മ Humayun's Tomb · Jantar Mantar · Ancient Kilan Garden
Stock Exchange · Transport · Delhi Transport Corporation · Indira Gandhi International Airport · Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station ൽഹി New Delhi Railway Station · Metro
Indian Independence Day · Indian Republic Day · Punjabi Cuisine · Hinduism · Sikhism · Islam · Cinema · Shopping · Ferozshah Kotla · Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium · 1951 Asian Games · 1982 Asian Games · Commonwealth Games 2010
Delhi Public School · Delhi University · IIT Delhi · Jamia Millia Islamia · Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University ന്ദി Indira Gandhi National Open University യി AIMS · Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology · Delhi School of Economics · Shri Ram College of Commerce · Lad Ram College for Women · Delhi College of Engineering · St. St. Joseph's College
Famous people from Delhi · Buildings and structures · List of cities in India
