 Caste system in Kerala ജാതി Caste system in India • Untouchability • Forward caste
On September 3, 1896, the Maharaja of Travancore, Dr. The Ezhava Memorial or Ezhava Memorial Petition is a petition submitted under the leadership of Palpu.
A petition has been filed by the GP to get a fair share of the natives in the government service. It was dedicated to the Maharaja on 11 January 1891 under the leadership of Pillai as the Malayalee Memorial. At that time Avarnas like Ezhavas were not employed in Travancore for posts with a monthly salary of more than Rs. Even the Avarners, who converted to Christianity, received all the benefits. But the Ezhavas did not get any benefits. The same was true for school admission. In this petition, the Ezhavas demanded that they should also get these without changing their religion.
GP on Ezhava's disability Pillai had drawn the attention of the Commons and the Congress in England, but to no avail. Dr. who has an LMS degree. Palpu applied for a job under the Travancore government but his application was rejected.
The Tamil Brahmins, who did not like the presentation of the Malayalee Memorial, soon refuted all its arguments and submitted a counter memorial to the King. In effect, it created an atmosphere of competition between communities. Meanwhile, Swami Vivekananda visited Kerala. From Pulpu, he had heard about the rituals of untouchability and untouchability that existed in Kerala. Dr. Vivekananda is the solution to the problems faced by the Ezhava community. Pulp was instructed to unite the community under a true saint.
In May 1895, Drs. Pulpu himself submitted a petition to Diwan Shankara Subbaiah on his own behalf. When the discussions with the Diwan were unsuccessful, a petition was submitted to the Maharaja in September 1896 under his leadership, signed by 13176 Ezhava community members. This was the Ezhava Memorial.
As a result, the government's position was slightly skewed. Avarner was admitted to schools. Dr. for organizing the unorganized Eezhavadis and educating the uneducated. The Ezhava Memorial was the first step of Pulpu.
On his second visit to Kerala, Swami Vivekananda began efforts to bring the issue of caste in Kerala back to the attention of the British Parliament. As the anarchy and caste system in Kerala became a serious topic of discussion in the British Parliament, the Travancore monarchy was forced to find a solution. As a result, the great poets Kumaranasan and Ayyankali were nominated to the newly formed Travancore Legislative Council.
The Malayalee Memorial, Counter Memorial and Ezhava Memorial series consider the early causes and symptoms of the democratic culture and popular uprisings in Travancore.
Travancore Legislative Council
This article about the history of Kerala is a stub. Help complete this.
