The Travelogue of Urshlem is a book published in the same year by Metropolitan Georgys Mar Gregorios, better known as Parumala, about his visit to Jerusalem in 1895. The Urshlem travelogue is considered to be the first travelogue printed in Malayalam.
Parumala Mar Gregorios was motivated to visit Jerusalem by a long-standing desire to visit the places described in the Bible and by the invitation of Georghes Mar Gregorios Bava, the head of the church in Jerusalem. In addition to Mar Gregorios, there were Gevarughese Malpan, Vettikal Kochupaulos Ramban, Thumpaman Karingattil Achen, Lucas Achen in Thekkanparavoor Thoppil, Geevarghese Achen in Puthanpurakkal, and others. The first six of them set out from Parumala on 28 January 1895. The deacon and his helper had already left for Bombay.
Mar Gregorios and his party started their journey by water and visited many places and churches in Kerala and reached Mulanthuruthi on February 7 and Kochi on the 16th. The group visited the then Malankara Metropolitan Joseph Mar Dionysios V and received his blessings. Arrived in Bombay on March 5 but the voyage was delayed. The voyage, which began on March 20, ended 18 days later at 11 a.m. on April 7 at the port of Joppa. The group arrived in Jerusalem at half past five and spent thirteen days there.
The group returned to Joppa on April 22 after visiting various places in Jerusalem and attending Holy Week services. The group stayed in Coptic Dyara for three days and set sail from Joppa on April 25. The group landed at Bobe on May 13, visited Shornur on May 17 and many other places, and returned to Parumala on June 6.
Within a month of his return to Urshlem, he completed his travelogue and submitted it to the Marthomas Printing Press, which operated at the old seminary in Kottayam. The purpose of this book was to share his travel experiences with the church members. In July 1895 an advertisement was published in the Parish Gazette for the publication of the travelogue of Urshlem. Thousands of copies were sold out within two months. A second edition was published in 1895.
Although there have been several editions of this book by various publishers since 1895, their circulation was mostly limited to members of the community. Linguist and historian Dr. Samuel Chandanappally first introduced the literary value of the travelogue of Urshlem in Malayalam literature. He published a book, Sacred Writings, along with other works by Mar Gregorios, including a travelogue on Urslem. Dr. Chandanapally provided chapters and subtitles for the travelogue of Urshlem for ease of reading. This revised edition became a textbook for MA at Madurai Kamaraj University and Kottayam Mahatma Gandhi University.
At the turn of the century, another edition of the book was published by journalist Paul Manalil with an introduction by Dr. Sukumar Azhikode entitled 'Parumala Thirumeni's Urshlem Yatravivaranam'. This edition, which took over the distribution of Current Books, attracted more critical attention. In this edition the travelogue is organized into ten chapters entitled To the Holy Land, Bombay, The Eight Spirits in the Box, The End of the Sail, In the Holy Land, The Holy Grave, The Garden of Gadsimon, The Bethlehem, The Experience Of The New Fire, And The Holy City Farewell.
In addition to these editions, Sofia Books released a similar edition of the Kottayam original in 2002.
Due to the delay in the departure of the ship to Jerusalem, the expedition had the opportunity to tour the city of Bombay. Mar Gregorios describes the sights of Bombay as follows:
The author describes his first sightings in Jerusalem as follows:
The author includes descriptions of various places traditionally believed to be associated with the life of Jesus, including the Church of Gethsemane, the Garden of Gethsemane, Bethlehem, and the House of Mercy, also known as the House of Mark, and their biblical background. The book gives a brief account of the ceremonies they attended during Holy Week and a generally lengthy account of the festive procession of people from various lands, including Armenians, Syrians, Greeks, and Egyptians.
Dr. P.J. In the book 'Malayalam Literature and Christians' written by Thomas, Scaria Zacharias, who wrote the appendix 'Discussion and Completion', does not seem to have made much of an impression on the style of writing the travelogue. His assessment is as follows: "When considered as a work of the late nineteenth century, its linguistic beauty and literary quality are not to be underestimated. It can be said that Malayalam prose was almost fully developed during this period."
But Sukumar Azhikode considers this work to be a generally better Malayalam book. He comments on the introduction of the Urshlem travelogue centenary edition. "His Holiness Gregorios is a contemporary of Oyyarathu Chanthumenon and Kerala Varma Valiya Koithampuran. It's not.
ോ ോ Antiochian Syrian Church President in Jerusalem. He is known as the Fifth Patriarch according to the Pentecostal system that existed in the Roman Empire. When the author was ordained bishop in 1876, his name was given.
