The Lamentable Journey of Omaha Bigelow Into the Impenetrable Loisida Jungle is a 2004 novel by Edgardo Vega Yunke. It is the story of Omaha Bigelow, a 35 - year - old man who has only failed in life and has a genetic disorder. Bigelow, who was recently fired from his job at Kinko, meets 15-year-old Marquita Salcipudeza on a street in the Lower East Side of New York and becomes intimate with her. A Puerto Rican woman, she and her mother practice witchcraft. His mother performed the "magic of development" for him. As a result, he went from being a permanent loser to one who could achieve anything. He begins to have success in women's issues. Subsequent storytelling focuses on magical realism and is more sexually explicit.
In storytelling, the novelist 's own opinions often appear in narrative form. Topics such as baseball, racial segregation, racism, and America's war ambitions.
The word "Loiseida" in the title of the novel is a New York pronunciation of "Lower East Side".
The novel is generally well-received. But some critics have criticized the author's uncontrolled intrusion.
From selected reviews ...
Such intrusions become recurrent ...— but always exhibiting a biting sense of humor and always intricately related to the ongoing narrative. This is a novel without precedent, a challenge for critics but also a pleasure for the attentive reader.
How does he make the connection between American life and politics and tell the tale of an underendowed punk-rocker and an unlucky-in-love bruja? I promise you, he makes it work.
his wild and wonderful novel should hit home with its dark humor and its bittersweet humanity.
Vega Yunqué has a keen intelligence, an ear for dialogue and a flair for zany passages of magic realism, but this sprawling, digressive book sinks under the weight of its snazzed-up style.
Vega Yunqué's lavish comic imagination fills the narrative with wonderfully offbeat characters .... But the novel collapses into metafictional mannerisms as Vega Yunqué inserts his opinions into the text ad nauseam ....
