Ecuador is a country in the northeastern part of the South American continent. The equator passes through this country. Ecuador is the Spanish name for the equator. The country is bordered by Colombia on the north, Peru on the east and south, and the Pacific Ocean on the west. Along with Chile, Ecuador is the only West American country that does not share a border with Brazil. The country also includes the island of Galapagos in the Pacific Ocean, 1,000 km west of the mainland. The country covers an area of ​​283,561 km2, 109,415 sq ml. The capital is Quito. Quito was recognized by UNESCO in 1970 as one of the best preserved and unmodified historic sites in Latin America. The largest city in the country is Guayaquil. Another historic city, Cuenca, the third largest city in Ecuador, is a UNESCO World Heritage Site as the best-designed Spanish-style American city. Ecuador is famous for its biodiversity. Because of this, Ecuador is considered one of the seven cities with the highest biodiversity in the world. Ecuador is the first country in the world to pass a law to protect the environment and the environment, which was passed in 2008.
Ecuador, which was part of the Spanish colony and part of the Republic of Gran Colombia, became independent in 1830 and became the Presidential Republic. HDI in Ecuador, where the average person lives. The value as of 2010 is 0.695. 35.1% of the total population is below the poverty line.
Structurally, Ecuador can be divided into mountainous, coastal, and eastern regions.
The first geographical area is the Andes region, which extends southwest across the country. The Andes region consists of two parallel mountain ranges to the east and west, and the mountains that lie across them and more than a dozen high plateaus between these mountains. The eastern foothills are covered with relatively young sedimentary rocks. On the west side are the Mesozoic igneous rocks and above them the Cretaceous sedimentary rocks. This is an area where the igneous process is active‌. Earthquakes are common here. There are about twenty active volcanoes along the eastern ridge. Of these, Kottapaxi is the tallest volcano on the continent. The highest point in Ecuador is Chimparazo, in the western foothills; This is also a dormant volcano. The highlands in the Andes region have become inferior due to the action of currents. The. Aksha. Volcanic eruptions occur in all the highlands north of 2B. There are numerous rivers in this area that flow through the mountains and into the Pacific. Of these, Meera and Guillaume are the most important. All river basins are fertile farmland; Quito is one of the highlands that make up the city. It has a relatively high mountain range that connects the southeastern and western mountains. There are many small rivers flowing in the highlands south of this mountain range. The. Aksha. These are the tributaries of the Marathon, which flows eastwards across the Andes near Bb. The catchment areas in this area are also fertile. Volcanic eruptions occur in all the highlands north of 2B. There are numerous rivers in this area that flow through the mountains and into the Pacific. Of these, Meera and Guillaume are the most important. All river basins are fertile farmland; Quito is one of the highlands that make up the city. It has a relatively high mountain range that connects the southeastern and western mountains. There are many small rivers flowing in the highlands south of this mountain range. The. Aksha. These are the tributaries of the Marathon, which flows eastwards across the Andes near Bb. The catchment areas in this area are also fertile. Volcanic eruptions occur in all the highlands north of 2B. There are numerous rivers in this area that flow through the mountains and into the Pacific. Of these, Meera and Guillaume are the most important. All river basins are fertile farmland; Quito is one of the highlands that make up the city. It has a relatively high mountain range that connects the southeastern and western mountains. There are many small rivers flowing in the highlands south of this mountain range. The. Aksha. These are the tributaries of the Marathon, which flows eastwards across the Andes near Bb. The catchment areas in this area are also fertile. All river basins are fertile farmland; Quito is one of the highlands that make up the city. It has a relatively high mountain range that connects the southeastern and western mountains. There are many small rivers flowing in the highlands south of this mountain range. The. Aksha. These are the tributaries of the Marathon, which flows eastwards across the Andes near Bb. The catchment areas in this area are also fertile. All river basins are fertile farmland; Quito is one of the highlands that make up the city. It has a relatively high mountain range that connects the southeastern and western mountains. There are many small rivers flowing in the highlands south of this mountain range. The. Aksha. These are the tributaries of the Marathon, which flows eastwards across the Andes near Bb. The catchment areas in this area are also fertile.
Swampy plains and barren hills are common along the coast. The river valleys in the foothills have become vast single plains. Water deposits and volcanic eruptions abound. In this area, you can see many barren hills that can be considered as branches of the hills. There are many small lakes and swamps formed by the occasional divergence of meandering rivers. The rivers Gaius, Naranjal, and Chimbo flow into the Pacific through this region.
The Amazon rainforest covers about half of the country's land area. Less than 5 percent of the population. This is the eastern part of the Andes Colony. This remote highland is densely forested with steep hills and mountains. The Galapagos Islands are located in the Pacific Ocean. About a thousand km to the continent. This area is to the east.
Local variations in climate can be seen depending on the altitude above sea level and whether it is facing or facing strong winds. Due to this, even the adjoining areas experience a completely different climate. 900 m above sea level. In areas up to. The temperature is 24 24 C to 26 C. Here the annual temperature drop does not exceed 3 bb. At altitudes of 900 to 1800 m. The temperature is 18 -2 C to 24 4 C. Here too the temperature difference is relatively small. . At altitudes of 2,000 to 3,000 m, the average temperature is 12-C to 18 C and the average temperature is 12 C. At an altitude of more than 3,000 m, the so-called paramos have an average temperature of less than 12 C. Glacier 4,400 m. In height‌; Above this are the permanent ice regions‌. Due to its location on both sides of the equator, there is no significant difference in length between day and night. The coastline can be divided into southern and northern parts, depending on the climate. North of the city of Esmeraldas has a humid and dry climate. The climate is characterized by two monsoons a year and the dry seasons that separate them. Storms are not felt. Jan in the southern half. The monsoon season lasts from May to May; The following months are dry. As we move south, the duration of the monsoon decreases. The eastern region is rainforest. The average temperature here is 27-C to 38 ബ C and the average rainfall is 200 cm. The climate is characterized by two monsoons a year and the dry seasons that separate them. Storms are not felt. Jan in the southern half. The monsoon season lasts from May to May; The following months are dry. As we move south, the duration of the monsoon decreases. The eastern region is rainforest. The average temperature here is 27-C to 38 ബ C and the average rainfall is 200 cm. The climate is characterized by two monsoons a year and the dry seasons that separate them. Storms are not felt. Jan in the southern half. The monsoon season lasts from May to May; The following months are dry. As we move south, the duration of the monsoon decreases. The eastern region is rainforest. The average temperature here is 27-C to 38 ബ C and the average rainfall is 200 cm.
Climate diversity is also reflected in vegetation. The lowlands are generally vegetated rainforests. These forests are rich in large trees and shrubs. 1,200 to 1,500 m. Dense forests in high altitude areas. Above these are open bushes called the Seja de Lamontana; Natural vegetation at altitudes above 3,000 m. Newspapers on the south side of the plain. Mangrove forests can be found on the shores and swamps of the Guayaquin Bay in this area. There are 25,000 species of plants in Ecuador. Economically important trees are abundant in the forests of Ecuador. Of these, balsa is the densest fat in the world.
Ecuador's rainforests are home to lions, tigers, leopards, foxes, whales, boars, deer, reptiles, reptiles, and apes. It is estimated that there are more than 1,600 species of birds that live in different climates. In addition, there are different types of bats. There are 6000 species of butterflies. വ. Many wintering birds of the United States temporarily migrate to the forests of Ecuador. All major species of reptiles, including venomous snakes, are common in Ecuador. The abundance of micro-organisms feels like a curse to the people of this area.
Ecuadorian indigenous peoples are the descendants of the Mongoloids, who crossed the Bering Sea from the Asian continent to the United States about 20,000 years ago and then spread to the south. During the European occupation, their membership was over eight million. Following the Spanish invasion, the natives fled to higher ground altogether. The Spaniards and the Negroes who were brought as their slaves settled in the coastal areas and valleys. The Europeans had sex with the natives who acted in their favor and became involved in a hybrid called the Mestiso. The Mulado tribe came into being through contact with Negroes and Europeans, and the Montuio tribe through contact with Negroes and natives. Hybrids make up about 55% of the total population. Indigenous peoples still make up a significant majority of Ecuador's population. Europeans make up only 20 percent of the population. The eastern part of Ecuador is still inhabited by indigenous peoples. 46 per cent of the population. On the coast, too, 51 per cent. In the Andes basins, 2 per cent. Inhabits the eastern region and about one percent of the Galapagos Islands. The population was 1,21,56,608 at the 2001 census, and the population was 45 per sq km. In 2003, it was 61.8 per cent. They lived in urban areas. Unique class traits are almost non-existent. The people of Ecuador generally have cultural characteristics that are appropriate to the landscape, climate and way of life. On the coast, too, 51 per cent. In the Andes basins, 2 per cent. Inhabits the eastern region and about one percent of the Galapagos Islands. The population was 1,21,56,608 at the 2001 census, and the population was 45 per sq km. In 2003, it was 61.8 per cent. They lived in urban areas. Unique class traits are almost non-existent. The people of Ecuador generally have cultural characteristics that are appropriate to the landscape, climate and way of life. On the coast, too, 51 per cent. In the Andes basins, 2 per cent. Inhabits the eastern region and about one percent of the Galapagos Islands. The population was 1,21,56,608 at the 2001 census, and the population was 45 per sq km. In 2003, it was 61.8 per cent. They lived in urban areas. Unique class traits are almost non-existent. The people of Ecuador generally have cultural characteristics that are appropriate to the landscape, climate and way of life.
Europeans speak Spanish. Different languages ​​were prevalent in different parts of Ecuador before the rise of Incas culture; Of these, only Chibchan is still in use. During the Inca Empire, the Kech language was officially propagated. Following the European occupation, Quechua was used along with the Spanish language for administrative convenience. The vast majority of people in Ecuador now speak Quechua; But Spanish is the official language. The uneducated natives of the eastern region still speak different languages. Giwaro, Sapporo, Takanova, Canello, and Kofen Aishwarya all have their own languages.
The Spaniards invaded during the heyday of the Incas. The Inca Empire was built through the federal coexistence of diverse peoples with distinct cultures, such as Esmeralda, Montahuan Cavilca, Poona, Cara, and Pansalio. Each people was under the control of a separate chief. It was an agrarian economy. Intensive farming practices and irrigation schemes were practiced. Farming was done entirely by women. The men were warriors; But in peacetime, they were engaged in weaving, armaments, and handicrafts. These warriors used spears, slingshots, clubs, and clubs. Weapons were made of copper and stone. Boats were used for water transportation. They lived in wooden, leafy houses. The usual attire was a loose-fitting knee-length shirt or waistcoat with a veil over it. Although monogamy existed, polygamy was allowed for nobles. In the social order, size and size based on wealth and status prevailed. Belief in superstitious primitive religions. Human sacrifice was common. The doctors and priests who practiced witchcraft were respected. During the Incas, handicrafts and commerce flourished. Improved transport facilities by constructing roads and hilly roads. The custom of growing "lama" for hair also existed, and cocoa was used as a beverage during this time. The Inca Empire was wiped out as a result of the Spanish invasion. With the spread of European culture, the handicrafts and arts of the Incas became obsolete. A culture of hybridity now exists. The adivasis living in the fortified forests of the eastern region are still uncultivated. They are careful to maintain their own rituals. Their livelihoods are hunting, fishing and intercropping. They make shelters out of tree branches and provide shelter. Special boats are used for water transport. These people who do not agree with the civilized people are skilled in weapons. The adivasis living in the fortified forests of the eastern region are still uncultivated. They are careful to maintain their own rituals. Their livelihoods are hunting, fishing and intercropping. They make shelters out of tree branches and provide shelter. Special boats are used for water transport. These people who do not agree with the civilized people are skilled in weapons. The adivasis living in the fortified forests of the eastern region are still uncultivated. They are careful to maintain their own rituals. Their livelihoods are hunting, fishing and intercropping. They make shelters out of tree branches and provide shelter. Special boats are used for water transport. These people who do not agree with the civilized people are skilled in weapons.
Christianity spread after the European occupation. The majority are now Christians of the Roman Catholic sect; There are also Protestants‌. A large section of the natives still believe in the primitive religions.
Agriculture is the main source of livelihood but accounts for only 6% of the total land area. Used only for harvesting. The total area of ​​agricultural land is 1.5 million hectares; Half of this is coastal and the other half is in the Andes region. Food crops are maize, barley, wheat, sorghum and potatoes. Maize is the staple food. Bananas are grown as cash crops and exported through the ports of Guayaquil, Porto Bolivar and Smeraldes. Banana is grown in small orchards. Cocoa and coffee are other cash crops. Ecuador, the world's first cocoa producer until 1920, is still at the forefront. 1,500 m in slopes of the Andes region. Coffee plantations can be seen up to the height. Paddy is the most widely grown crop in the coastal plains of Ecuador; A good portion of this is exported.
Ecuador's 65 percent It is a forest land. Although there are many economically important timber forests in these forests, logging has not developed as an industry due to the inadequacy of transport facilities. The lightweight wood of the balsa tree is world famous. Toothpaste-producing palms are abundant in the forests of Ecuador; Jute is also found in abundance as a source of fiber for the famous Panama hats. Other forest resources include rubber and cinchona. The forests of Ecuador are not yet scientifically protected.
Petroleum is the main mineral; Ech is coming from different parts of the region. Heavy investment has been found in the eastern region. Production has also increased with the development of transport facilities. Gold is also produced. Along with gold, metals such as silver and copper are also mined to a lesser extent. Ecuador lags behind other countries in the Andes region in terms of mineral resources.
Ecuador has not made much progress industrially. It can be said that there is no large-scale production except for the development of textile, food processing, leather and small scale machinery for national consumption. Textiles are the number one industry in terms of number of workers; Lots of handlooms are also being made. Production is generally done in small factories. The "Panama Hat" is one of Ecuador's most important handicrafts;
Exports are mostly raw materials; The manufactured goods are imported. U.S. Male is a major player in foreign trade; It also has trade relations with Western European countries, Italy, Japan and Latin American countries. Along with machinery and medicines, wheat and textiles are also imported. The 1987 earthquake, the 1997 El Niോo phenomenon, and the severe economic crisis of 1999 adversely affected Ecuador's growth.
The complex terrain and dense forests seriously hamper the development of transport and communication facilities. Roads and communications are constantly being damaged due to adverse weather conditions, which is slowing down the development potential. For this reason, water transport has been given great importance. The only mode of transport in the eastern region is water bodies, including rivers and streams. Most of the rivers in the coastal areas are transportable. The main railway line is between the coastal port of Guayaquil and the capital, Quito. Major hubs in the Andes highlands are interconnected by road. There are numerous merchant ships belonging to Ecuador‌; These play a significant role in foreign trade. "Flotamarcan's Grand Colombiana" jointly owned by Ecuador and Colombia The company controls international trade. The major ports along the Pacific coast are Guayaquil, Portobolivar, La Libertad Manta, Bahia de Caracas, Esmeraldas and San Lorenzo. In addition to the capital city of Quito, Queensa, Ambatto and Ibarra are important inland cities. Air transport has also developed; In addition to establishing air links between various cities in Ecuador, there are also international services. Ecuador has a network of national highways. The Pan-American Highway connects the northern and southern parts of the country. This national highway also connects Ecuador with northern Colombia and southern Peru. A network of intercity buses connecting hilly areas with the National Highway has also been developed. La Libertad Manta, Bahia de Caracas, Esmeraldas and San Lorenzo. In addition to the capital city of Quito, Queensa, Ambatto and Ibarra are important inland cities. Air transport has also developed; In addition to establishing air links between various cities in Ecuador, there are also international services. Ecuador has a network of national highways. The Pan-American Highway connects the northern and southern parts of the country. This national highway also connects Ecuador with northern Colombia and southern Peru. A network of intercity buses connecting hilly areas with the National Highway has also been developed. La Libertad Manta, Bahia de Caracas, Esmeraldas and San Lorenzo. In addition to the capital city of Quito, Queensa, Ambatto and Ibarra are important inland cities. Air transport has also developed; In addition to establishing air links between various cities in Ecuador, there are also international services. Ecuador has a network of national highways. The Pan-American Highway connects the northern and southern parts of the country. This national highway also connects Ecuador with northern Colombia and southern Peru. A network of intercity buses connecting hilly areas with the National Highway has also been developed. Air transport has also developed; In addition to establishing air links between various cities in Ecuador, there are also international services. Ecuador has a network of national highways. The Pan-American Highway connects the northern and southern parts of the country. This national highway also connects Ecuador with northern Colombia and southern Peru. A network of intercity buses connecting hilly areas with the National Highway has also been developed. Air transport has also developed; In addition to establishing air links between various cities in Ecuador, there are also international services. Ecuador has a network of national highways. The Pan-American Highway connects the northern and southern parts of the country. This national highway also connects Ecuador with northern Colombia and southern Peru. A network of intercity buses connecting hilly areas with the National Highway has also been developed.
A.D. In the second half of the 9th century, a federation of various tribes centered on Quito existed; But Quito came under Inca invasion from the south; Quito became part of the Inca Empire in the 15th century through military force and marriages. Atavalpa, the son of the Inca king Huayna Kapak, born to a princess in Quito, became emperor of all these regions. During the European occupation, Quito became the capital of the nation of the same name and the center of a prosperous indigenous culture. Later it came under the rule of the Spaniards.
The colonial period in Ecuador began when the Spaniards, led by Francisco Copicaro, moved south to Panama. In 1526 Bartholomew Diaz, part of Pizarro's expedition, sailed across the Pacific to the Esmeralds; Subsequently, Pizarro sought to completely conquer and subjugate what is now Ecuador and Peru. In 1532 he invaded Peru. The Ing rule ended in Ecuador with the assassination of Atavalpa, the last Inca king. The rest of Quito was conquered by Sebastian de Belal Caesar, Pizarro's general, and the new city of San Francisco de Quito was established. Gonzalo Pizarro was later appointed governor of Quito. In 1717, Bogot received control of Quito, a province under Peru; It came under Peru's control in 1723, but returned to Bogot in 1740. It remained under Bogota until Ecuador became a republic.
1809 Aug. On the 10th, the freedom struggle began in Quito. But the revolutionary government that came to power lasted only a year; 1810 Aug. Most of the 20 reformers were executed in Quito. 1810 o. On the 11th, a revolutionary government came to power again, but in 1812 it too was ousted. In 1822, Simon Bolivar's army defeated the royalists at the Battle of Pichincha and captured Quito. Grand Colombiana, comprising Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador, was formed, and after Bolivar's death, Ecuador became an independent nation, with General Juan Jose Flores as the first president, and Eduardo's president before the constitution was drafted. During the reign of Gabriel Garcia Moreno, who became President in 1861, Ecuador made significant economic and social progress. Despite strong opposition from the Liberal Party, Garcia Moreno made the reforms. In 1875, Moreno was assassinated. For the next twenty years, Ecuador was in a state of near anarchy. General Eloy Alfaro seizes power in 1897; In 1897 he was promoted to lawful president. He took the initiative to reduce the political influence of the Catholic Church. He was assassinated in 1912 while seeking a third term as president. Democracy survived in the following years, but Ecuador was unable to make significant progress due to political tensions and uncertainty in governance. In 1875, Moreno was assassinated. For the next twenty years, Ecuador was in a state of near anarchy. General Eloy Alfaro seizes power in 1897; In 1897 he was promoted to lawful president. He took the initiative to reduce the political influence of the Catholic Church. He was assassinated in 1912 while seeking a third term as president. Democracy survived in the following years, but Ecuador was unable to make significant progress due to political tensions and uncertainty in governance. In 1875, Moreno was assassinated. For the next twenty years, Ecuador was in a state of near anarchy. General Eloy Alfaro seizes power in 1897; In 1897 he was promoted to lawful president. He took the initiative to reduce the political influence of the Catholic Church. He was assassinated in 1912 while seeking a third term as president. Democracy survived in the following years, but Ecuador was unable to make significant progress due to political tensions and uncertainty in governance.
Following the military coup in Ecuador in 1963, Captain Ramon Castro Gijn came to power. In 1966, an interim president was elected by political parties other than the Communists on the instructions of military leaders. In the ensuing general election, Otto Aracemenagomas became president. With the exception of the 1963-66 military rule, Ecuador was still a democracy. Velasco Ibaro, who became president for the fifth time in 1968, restored strong rule. Although political freedom was restricted, he succeeded in implementing a number of programs aimed at economic and social well-being. Subsequently, Ibarre's rule did not last long. Velasco Ibaro was overthrown in a military coup in 1972. According to the new constitution, 1979 A.D. In the 29th election, Jaime Roldos Aguilera was elected President. After a decade of dictatorship, a constitutionally elected president came to power. He remained in power until his death in a plane crash on May 24, 1981. The then Vice President, Oswaldo Hartado, became President. The Hartado government faced severe crises. The long-running border dispute with Peru has escalated. The financial crisis has upset the government. Strikes and demonstrations became commonplace. In the 1984 presidential election, Leon Fabregas and Cർഡrdoba Rivade Neera won by a slim majority. The Cെrdoba government has been able to implement a number of economic reforms. In the 1988 presidential election, Rodrigo Borja Sevalos was elected. The bourgeoisie made human rights protection and foreign trade a priority. Yet many wrongdoings have eroded public confidence in the Borja government. Then, in 1992, Duran Ballen became president of Ciccas. His liberalization and privatization caused great opposition. Subsequently, the three governments that came to power in 1996-2006 could not complete their terms. The achievement of this period was that the border dispute with Peru and Ecuador was resolved. In the 2006 election, Rafael Correa Delgade became president. The achievement of this period was that the border dispute with Peru and Ecuador was resolved. In the 2006 election, Rafael Correa Delgade became president. The achievement of this period was that the border dispute with Peru and Ecuador was resolved. In the 2006 election, Rafael Correa Delgade became president.
This Ecuador article is a stub. Help develop this.

Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Falkland Islands, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Suriname, Uruguay, Venezuela.
