The Rakhine people are an indigenous people living in the Rakhine State of modern Myanmar. Rakhine makes up more than 5.53 percent of Myanmar's population. Earlier, they were also known as the Ardakanese people. The Rakhine people also live in the southeastern part of Bangladesh. They live in Bangladesh, especially in the Chittagong and Barisal divisions. The Arkansas are a group of people who have been living in the Chittagong Hill Tracts area of ​​Bangladesh since at least the 16th century. They are also known as the Mystery People. It is a descendant of the Arkansas and has been living in the area since the Chittagong Arkansas dynasty came under its control. The Arkansas also live in the Indian state of Tripura. The rise of the Arkanese dynasty in Tripura dates back to the reign of King Arkansas of Tripura. In northeastern India, the Arkansas are known as the Mog people. At the same time, in Bengal the lineage of the Arkanese people and other Arkanese people is called the Mag people.
The people of Arkansas are mainly followers of Thevara Buddhism. They are one of the four major Buddhist ethnic groups in Burma. The other three groups are the Bamar people, the Mon people and the Shan people. They claim to be the first sect from Southeast Asia to follow Gautama Buddha. Arkansas culture is similar to Burmese culture. But it is mostly Indian influence. This may be due to the geographical isolation that separates the Burmese mainland from the Arkan Mountains. This region is very close to South Asia. The Arkansas people are deeply influenced by Indian culture in many ways, including literature, music, and cuisine.
The Arkanese language is more similar to the Burmese language. The major change is that the Burmese word J is retained in the Arkansas word R. The letters in the modern Arkansas language are basically the same as the standard Burmese. In the past, it was used as a Rakhna script, as evidenced by the stone inscriptions of the Vesali period. This script was used to write Arakans.
The ancient city of Thanksgiving was spread over the western foothills between the Caladen and Le Moro Mountains. The city was surrounded by a brick wall .It was a random circle of about 9.6 km in circumference. The city covers an area of ​​4.42 sq km. Beyond the wall, there was a wide moat. At present the area is covered with loamy soil and is a paddy field. These areas can still be seen.
Mrouk-yu was the last independent Arakan dynasty founded by King Mongswa Mon in 1430. This dynasty existed according to Buddhist principles. This period was their golden age
