In the Mahabharata, Karna, the son of the sun, possessed a rainbow. It is also known as Vaijayanthi Shakti. Although Karna kept it to kill Arjuna, due to Krishna's tactical intervention, Karna used it on Ghatolkachan and nullified it. This veil was one that could only be used once in a lifetime. After use, this power returned to Indra.
One day in the days leading up to the Battle of Kurukshetra, Indra, the king of the gods, thought thus. Karna is the main enemy of his son. As the son of the sun, he is a rival to Arjuna. But Karna will not die as long as he wears the Ajanmasiddha Kavakundalam blessed by his father Suryadev. Thus the immortal Karna will become the time of his son. So it should be taken from Karna by any means. Knowing Indra's such thoughts with wisdom, Lord Surya appeared to his son Karna one night in his dream in the guise of a Brahmin. The sun reveals his birth secret to Karna who greeted him politely. Afterwards, Lord Surya told Karna that he should never give up the armor he wore on his body and that Karna would be safe so that no one could kill him in battle as long as he was in his body. At that time, the Brahmins gave whatever they asked for. Many Brahmins used to gather there to receive donations from Karna. That is why Karna tells Surya that he will not break his fast. But Karna told his father, Suryadev, that he would never violate the truth and that he would never break his vow. At that time, the Brahmins gave whatever they asked for. Many Brahmins used to gather there to receive donations from Karna. That is why Karna tells Surya that he will not break his fast. But Karna told his father, Suryadev, that he would never violate the truth and that he would never break his vow. At that time, the Brahmins gave whatever they asked for. Many Brahmins used to gather there to receive donations from Karna. That is why Karna tells Surya that he will not break his fast.
In that case, the Sun God specifically reminded Indra that he should ask for the veil of Indra's monogamy instead of armor, and that it should not be applied to anyone other than Arjuna, but should not be applied to Arjuna. Indra uses it to kill demons. It was returned to Indra's possession exactly after application .Humans can get it only if Indra gives it. Even so, owning one is still beyond the reach of the average person. After that it will be returned to Indra .It will not die.
Indra came in the guise of a Brahmin, as the Sun God had said before. Karna, on the instructions of the Sun God, asked Indra, who had asked for his life-saving armor, to give him the Indra-given monogamous Vail. And then said. "I am born with these armor. If I renounce what my father gave me, I will succumb to death. But if you have the job, there is a mortal enemy who is my death. I will kill him and save him from untimely death." Indra said with a cruel laugh, "I will give you the Vail, but remember that it is Lord Krishna who saves the enemy you want." Having said this, Indra gave Karna a one-man job and in return Karna offered to give him his priceless armor. Despite the intense pain, Seeing Karna cutting off the armor from his body, Indra and the gods chanted. Seeing this valiant deed, the gods and sages addressed Karna with reverence. Distortion means "one who cuts off the body." With that, Karna got the name Vaikarthana: Karna. After the donation, when the happy Indra asked what gift you wanted, Karna asked for a radiant body without scars. Indra gave the gift and disappeared with a mysterious smile. In this way, despite Indra's evil intentions, Karna's fame spread all over the world.
On the night of the fourteenth day of the battle, Lord Krishna sent against Karna a terrifying demon named Ghatolkachan, the son of Bhima. The terrifying demon resisted Karna by the force of Krishna's blessings. Karna was really confused by his attack. Eventually, when no solution was found, Karna executed Indradatta's one-man attack on the demon and killed him. His job is to save Arjuna from Karna. That is why Krishna sends Ghatolkachan to Karna. That night, no one but Ghatolkachana was able to confront Karna, who was growing stronger. In some other texts it is said that it was Indra who gave Ghatolkachan the power to oppose Karna.

