Babata was a Jewish woman who lived in Roman Arabia in the second century CE A collection of papyrus documents relating to Babata's life was found in the "Cave of Letters" in Nahal Hewer, 1960, on the shores of the Dead Sea. Babata was born in the port city of Maosa, a modern-day Jordanian city, near the juncture of the first and second centuries CE This archive, found among the Babata stones hidden in a cave with the rebels, was discovered 18 centuries later by the Israeli archaeologist Jigiel Yadin. Wills, land titles, marriage contracts, These documents, including appeals, provide valuable insights into the status of women in Jewish society in the second century. These documents show the image of a woman who uses all practical and practical means to establish her own rights. These documents were written in Greek, Aramaic, and Nabataean.
There is no indication in the records that Babatta had siblings. She may have been born at the beginning of the second century as the only child of her parents. His parents were Simon the landlord of Mahosa, and Miriam the daughter of Menahem. In the will of his father Simeon, he made his wife the first heir of his palm groves in Mahosa and Babata the second heir after his wife. Following Simeon's death, the plantations came under Babata's ownership in 120 CE It is unknown at this time what he will do after leaving the post. Her first husband's name was Joshua. Their first husband died within 124 CE, after they had a son named Joshua. Mahosa, the birthplace of Babata, was formerly part of the independent Batian kingdom of Petra. However, it was annexed by Roman Emperor Trojan Nabatia in 106 CE, and became part of Roman Arabia. Following the death of Babata's first husband, the Roman court in Petra appointed the two as guardians of their son Joshua. These parents were also responsible for the first husband's property. But Babata, who thought that they were not looking after the property to get the income for the child's expenses, argued for the ownership of the property.
Meanwhile, in 125, Babata became the second wife of Judas, the owner of three palm groves in Engedi, Judea. Judas' first wife, Miriam, was still living in Engedi. He also had a daughter, Shelamsion, who was married to his first wife. Although polygamy was permissible in Jewish society at the time, it is not clear whether Babata lived with his first wife in the house of Judas in Engedi after his second marriage. Babata's relationship with her second husband shows perfect financial equality and cooperation. Babata went with her second husband to Rabbat, Moab, to submit the details of her property in Mahosa to the census authorities in Roman Arabia. When the first wife's daughter, Shelamsion, needed 500 dinars for her wedding expenses, Babata lent her husband 300 dinars.
In the year 130 CE, Judas, Babata's second husband, died. Then, fearing that he would not receive the widow's dowry and the 300 dinars he had borrowed from his husband's family, he confiscated the palm groves he owned in Engedi, Judea. With that, Judas' family started arguing with Babat. The latest item in this collection is a court summons following a complaint filed by Miriam, the second wife's first wife, against the seizure of palm groves.
At the outset of the Bar Kokba uprising, speculation was rife about the circumstances under which Babata had arrived in the "cave of letters". It is not clear whether she was in political collusion or cooperation with the rebels. While visiting the palm groves in Engedi, which were seized following the death of her husband, one explanation is that she may have been caught unawares in the riots. Jonathan, who was the general of Bar Kokhaba in Engedi, is said to have been the brother of Miriam, the first wife of Babata's second husband. It has been noted that the marriage contract of Miriam's daughter Shelamsion was also included in the archives kept by Babata. Although he had an affair with Miriam, it is speculated that Babata may have been in love with Shelamsion and sought refuge with them in the cave. It is unknown at this time what he will do after leaving the post. The general presumption is that she died there, considering that the archives were abandoned there and that there were no records after 132.
Babata's archive is a valuable contribution to the knowledge of the rights of Jewish women in Greco-Roman Palestine. There are indications to what extent these rights depended on Jewish tradition and non-Jewish law. It corrects the notion that the flexibility of Jewish society depended solely on rabbinic precepts. Babata also provides clear evidence that women rarely, if ever, work in areas such as property ownership and finance, which they generally exclude.
