The greenhouse effect is the absorption of heat from these waves by some of the gases in the atmosphere as they reflect the sun's rays falling on the earth into long waves. Gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, vapor, and ozone are known as greenhouse gases, and this continues
The amount of greenhouse gases entering the atmosphere is increasing; Accelerating global warming: New study warns
Despite growing concerns about global warming, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have not diminished. Moreover, the rate of gas diffusion has increased significantly. This shows that the current Kyoto Protocol, which aims to prevent global warming, has not been effective enough. In 2005 alone, the concentration of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, in the atmosphere increased by half a percent, according to a study by the United Nations' World Climate Organization.

The use of fossil fuels such as petroleum and coal is the main reason for the spread of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Not only CO2 but also methane and nitrous oxide are greenhouse gases. Of these, the concentrations of CO2 and nitrous oxide are increasing. "The levels of these gases are unlikely to decrease in the near future," the study said. Researchers warn that if they continue to spread in the atmosphere, they will realize that the nightmares of global warming, which haunted mankind, will become a reality. According to a study by the Climate Organization. That is an increase of 0.53%. The concentration of nitrous oxide in 2005 was 319.2 ppm. As. In one year, it has increased by 0.2 per cent. There has been no increase in the case of methane. These gases are released into the atmosphere from industry, automobiles, and power generation. The rapid growth of these areas and the lack of effective measures to limit gas emissions are contributing to the increase in greenhouse gases.
Greenhouse gases block heat from the sun in the atmosphere. Without these gases, the earth would freeze. The existence of life on earth would have been impossible. At present, 78% of the Earth's atmosphere is nitrogen. 20.9 percent oxygen. In comparison, the levels of CO2, the major component of greenhouse gases, are very limited. CO2 is just one of ten thousand molecules. Yet the average temperature on Earth is 14 degrees Celsius. About 98% of Venus' atmosphere is CO2. This is because its temperature is 477 degrees Celsius. Even if the concentration of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere is just one percent, the average temperature here is estimated to be 100 degrees Celsius. Atmospheric CO2 concentration was 280 ppm before 1800, when the Industrial Revolution began. Was. That equates to 586 gigatons of CO2. Today it is 379.1 ppm. Be; Equivalent to 790 gigatonnes. By 2100 the concentration of CO2 will be 550 ppm. Is estimated to be. That would be equivalent to 1100 gigatons of CO2.
This environmental article is a stub. Help develop this.
