Dhyan Chand was one of the key players in the teams that won the hockey gold medal for India three times in a row at the Olympics. She was born on August 29, 1905 in Allahabad. Dhyan Chand first won a gold medal at the Olympics in 1928. Hockey fans consider him a magician in the game of hockey.
The Dhyan Chand era is considered to be the golden age of Indian hockey. When India defeated Germany in the 1936 Olympics, Dhyan Chand attended a dinner hosted by Hitler. Dhyan Chand, a Lance Corporal in the Indian Army, was offered the rank of Colonel in the German Army by Hitler, with an agreement to settle in Germany. But Dhyan Chand refused. After independence, he was given the rank of Major by the Government of India and was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1956.
Dhyan Chand, who learned hockey from playing in the Navy, joined the Brahmin Regiment at the age of 16 and became active in the game.
At the 1932 Los Angeles Olympics, Dhyan Chand became an attacking ally in the line - up. Dhyan Chand won the final 23 goals against the United States. Dhyan Chand's share was 7 goals. Dhyan Chand's stick is a magic wand. While the umpire was skeptical, Dhyan Chand gave his stick to the American player. Dhyan Chand took his stick instead .How he filled the net with two dozen goals. It is enough to be allowed to play alone.
The Indian team arrived in Berlin on a cold trip in a third - class train room that did not even have a sleeper facility. He returned without a ticket. India conceded one goal in the first overcrowded stadium, but Dhyan Chand's scored three goals in the series.Hitler sent the team away with a feast.
In 1930, the locals erected a statue of Dhyan Chand in Vienna. The statue had four arms. Each hockey player in four hands. The statue was a testament to the Viennese belief that an ordinary man could not win hockey like Dhyanchand with two hands and a stick.
Mathrubhumi Sports Magazine November 2015

This article about an athlete is a stub. Please help improve this article or section by expanding it.
