The Tata Institute of Fundamental Research is an Indian institution that conducts basic research in various scientific disciplines. Headquartered in Mumbai, the company is a subsidiary of TIFR. Known by the acronym. One of the best research centers in the world, it offers basic research in physics, biology, chemistry, mathematics, computer science and science education.
Known as the 'Father of Nuclear Research in India', Dr. Homi J. Bhabha wrote the letter to TIF in 1943 in a letter to industrialist JRD Tata. The beginning of the sixth. The content of the letter was a request to help start an institute for basic research. Tata has asked the chairman of the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust to submit the project. The Institute was established on June 1, 1945 with the decision of the Trust and the Government of the Bombay Presidency. The institute was started by Cosmic Ray Research at the Indian Institute of Sciences, Bangalore, where Bhabha was then working. Within six months it was moved to Kenilworth in Bombay, Bhabha's birthplace. 'Gateway of India' since 1949 The institute operated at the Royal Bombay Yacht Club near here. Later in Navy Nagar 6.075 ha. TIFR headquarters was built on the site. 1962 Jan. On the 15th, the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru inaugurated the complex. From the outset, the Institute has received support from the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, and the Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific Research, Government of India. Since 1953, the Atomic Energy Commission has recognized TIFR as the Commission's laboratory for basic research in nuclear science. TIFR was established by the Government of India, the Bombay State Government and the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust in 1955 as a National Center for Basic Research and Studies in Atomic Science and Mathematics. Approved. Today the institute is funded by the Government of India. The Institute is governed by a Director and a Management Council to oversee policy matters. The two faculties, the School of Physics and the School of Mathematics, lead academic activities.
The early activities of the institute were in the fields of cosmic ray, high energy physics, theoretical physics and mathematics. Dr. These were topics of interest to Bhabha. In 1950, Prof. K. Chandrasekharan and Prof. K. G. He started the School of Mathematics with Ramanathan. Later, an electronics group was set up to assist the Atomic Energy Commission. TIFR also specializes in computer technology. Provided the leadership India needed. The first computer in India, the TIFRAC, was designed and built by local scientists. Later, groups for research and technology development in the areas of particle accelerators, microwave communications, software technology and science education were established here. These groups have led many institutions in India on these issues. During the reorganization of the administration in 1997, the institute was divided into three main schools: the School of Natural Sciences, the School of Mathematics, and the School of Technology and Computer Science.
The School of Natural Sciences has seven departments in Mumbai and three TIFRs. Centers and five field stations. Department of Biological Sciences, Department of Chemical Sciences, Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Department of Content Matter, Physics and Materials Physics, Department of High Energy Physics and Dept. of Dept. The three centers of TIFR are the Homi Bhabha Center for Science Education in Mumbai, the National Center for Biology in Bangalore and the National Center for Radio Astrophysics in Pune. The High Energy Gamma Ray Observatory in Pachmarhi is a field station for basic learning. Cosmic Ray Laboratory at Ooty, Gravitation Laboratory at Gauribidanur, Balloon Facility for Atmospheric Studies at Hyderabad and Epidemiology and Dental Research at TIFR. The School of Mathematics is based in Mumbai and Bangalore. The School of Technology and Computer Science is mainly based in Mumbai. The state-of-the-art equipment developed here is being donated to various institutions along with other national centers. The School of Mathematics is based in Mumbai and Bangalore. The School of Technology and Computer Science is mainly based in Mumbai. The state-of-the-art equipment developed here is being donated to various institutions along with other national centers. The School of Mathematics is based in Mumbai and Bangalore. The School of Technology and Computer Science is mainly based in Mumbai. The state-of-the-art equipment developed here is being donated to various institutions in association with other national centers.
Dr. Homi Bhabha was the founding director of TIFR. Following his death, Prof. M.G.K. Menon served as director until 1975. Until 1987, Prof. B.V. Sreekandan and Prof. till 1997. Veerendrasingh also became a director. T. I. F. R. In 1996, the Golden Jubilee was celebrated. Prof. The research of the institute is being carried out under the guidance of eminent scientists like Jayant Narlikar.
TIFR also includes institutes outside its main campus in Colaba and Mumbai:
