- in Europe - in the United Kingdom 
England is the largest and most populous country in the United Kingdom. England's land borders are north of Scotland and west of Wales. It is bordered by the Irish Sea to the northwest and the North Sea to the east. The English Channel, which separates England from the southern European peninsula, is located in the Gulf. There are about a hundred small islands that are part of England. The capital of England, London, is the largest urban area in Great Britain and, in all respects, by far the largest urban area in the European Union.
Archaeological remains indicate that human habitation has existed here since the Stone Age. England derives its name from the Germanic tribe of Angles, who settled in the area in the 5th century AD. It has been a unitary state since AD ​​927. From the fifteenth century onwards England became a dominant power and exerted its political and cultural influence all over the world. Parliamentary democracy and the Industrial Revolution originated in England.  
Archaeological excavations have revealed that the place has been inhabited since the Stone Age. After the last ice age, sea levels were significantly lower than they are today, so Great Britain lay with Ireland along the Eurasian continent. The island of Ireland was separated from the continent 10,000 years after sea level began to rise after the ice age. Then, 2000 years later, the island of Great Britain seceded from the Eurasian continent. It was first settled by land-dwelling humans from northern Iberia during the Eurasian continent.
By the beginning of the Ayodhya period, Celtic tribes came and settled here from Central Europe. At that time, the people of this place spoke the Celtic language, Bytoni. By 43 AD, Roman armies had occupied most of Great Britain, making Great Britain the British province of the Roman Empire. Since then, Greco-Roman culture has spread in Britain. By the 5th century AD, Roman rulers began withdrawing troops from Britain to protect other guests of the empire and to take part in civil wars. With that, the Roman military power in Britain began to wane.

With the withdrawal of the Roman armies from Britain, the Angles, Saxons, and Jude, the Germanic tribes who had previously carried out retail attacks and plunder on the British coast, bravely invaded and settled here. These Germanic tribes were collectively known as the Anglo-Saxons. There were many wars between them and the aborigines of Britain called Britton. Gradually, much of England, part of Britain, came under Anglo Saxon control. The leading Anglo-Saxon countries in England at that time were Northumbria, Mercia, Wessex, East Anglia, Essex, Kent and Sussex.
In AD 1066, William Duke of Normandy invaded and conquered England. With this attack those who came from Normandy became the ruling class in England. William also became the first Norman king of England. The Normans were French speakers. In order to eradicate the Anglo-Saxon language from England, the Norman rulers banned the teaching of the Anglo-Saxon language in churches.
This article related to a location in Europe, is a stub. Help develop this.
