
The stem borer is a pest that attacks the paddy plant. This is a major enemy of paddy. Scientific name: Sirpofaga insertulas.
It is a larva that hatches from the eggs of a yellow butterfly. The female lays 15 to 80 eggs at the leaf tips of the paddy plant. Within five to ten days, the eggs hatch and the worms attack the paddy plants. The moth makes a cut in the stalk of the rice and stays inside the stalk until it becomes a moth. Usually only one worm comes inside a stalk. The carnivorous moth completes the larval stage and enters the samadhi stage within three to four weeks. Before completing the samadhi stage, a hole is made in the stalk to exit the stalk before entering the samadhi stage. At the base of the stalk is a samadhi-like creature. The samadhi phase is completed within a week.
The stem borer infestation is seen in all the seasons of paddy cultivation. Mundakan and Puncha crops are the worst hit. The severity of the attack is related to various factors in the climate.
Stem borer moths attack any growth stage of paddy. In some cases, it can even complete two or three stages in a season. If the paddy is attacked before the harvest, the stalk of the paddy dries up. After the stalks come out, the stalks dry out and the pods become dull and discolored. This condition is known as 'Venkathir'. It is also known locally as Vellakumpu and Kuttankuthu. About 25% of the damage is caused by stem borer infestation. If the situation is favorable, the damage will be even greater.
Stem borer can be controlled by integrated pest control methods. Control methods include collecting and destroying the eggs of moths found in the undergrowth, cultivating varieties that are at least somewhat resistant to attack in the most vulnerable field collections, and placing lanterns in various parts of the field to attract and destroy the butterflies. Tricho cards have been used effectively for their control. In case of worm infestation throughout the year, watering can be controlled 15-20 days after transplanting and spraying of any chemical pesticide suitable for the area can effectively control the pest infestation. Integrated plant management methods based on course collection are also advisable.
