Bertrand Russell's view of philosophy shows the changed perspectives of the philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell. It covers his early works from 1896 to his death in 1970.
Bertrand Russell was one of the pioneers of analytic philosophy. But he has written books on philosophy, the philosophy of mathematics, metaphysics, ethics, and epistemology. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1950 for his work on Theory of Knowledge in 1913, and his related articles on the Encyclopഡിയdia Britannica in 1926, as well as his general and controversial writings on the philosophy of religion.
Bertrand Russell was one of the pioneers in the development of what is now known as analytical philosophy. G. E. Russell, along with Moore, was a leading figure in the struggle against British idealism. F. H. Bradley and G.J. W. F. Idealism was a philosophy that greatly influenced Hegel. Russell commented that in order to know a particular thing we need to know all its relationships. Because of this we cannot fully comprehend space, time, science and numerology.
Russell and Moore sought to simplify their philosophical position on the various aspects of logic. Russell, in particular, saw science and systematic reason as the tools of a philosopher. Russell never thought we had different philosophical approaches. Russell thought that philosophers should respect public opinion about this world. Find the answers to them so that the confusion can be resolved. In particular, he should have eliminated, in his opinion, supernatural philosophies in excess of this need. For this, Russell relied on William O'Connor's theory against the proliferation of unwanted essences. The most important core of analytical philosophy was Okham's knife.
Russell had a great influence on modern mathematical philosophy. 
This is a selected bibliography of Russell's books in English sorted by year of first publication.
Note: This is a mere sampling, for Russell also wrote many pamphlets, introductions, articles and letters to the editor. His works can also be found in any number of anthologies and collections, perhaps most notably The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell, which McMaster University began publishing in 1983. This collection of his shorter and previously unpublished works is now up to 16 volumes, and many more are forthcoming. An additional three volumes catalog just his bibliography. The Russell Archives at McMaster University also have more than 30,000 letters that he wrote.
