AK Antony or Kurian Antony in Arakkaparambil. He was the Defense Minister of India. Former Chief Minister of Kerala and Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Legislative Assembly. AK Antony was the Chief Minister of Kerala from 1977-78, 1995-96 and 2001-04. He was the Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Legislative Assembly from 1996 to 2001. When he became the Chief Minister in 1977, Antony was 37 years old and the youngest Chief Minister of Kerala.
AK Antony was born on December 28, 1940 in Cherthala, Alappuzha district, the son of Kurien Pillai and Elikutty. Primary Education Govt. In high school Cherthala. He later obtained his BA from the Maharaja of Ernakulam and his BL from the Ernakulam Law College.
AK Antony is the longest serving Minister of Defense in India. Anthony, 7 years in a row. The youngest Chief Minister of Kerala at the age of 37. The youngest KPCC president in Kerala at the age of 32. He entered mainstream politics through the Kerala Students Union, a Congress student organization, and has served as President of KSU and the Youth Congress, as General Secretary and Treasurer of the AICC. Antony has led many struggles, including the Orana agitation. He has been elected several times to the Working Committee of the Indian National Congress.
He was a member of the Rajya Sabha of the Indian Parliament from 1985 to 1991 and from 1991 to 1995. Narasimha Rao was the Cabinet Minister for Public Distribution in the Cabinet.
He is currently a member of the Congress Working Committee and a member of the Congress Disciplinary Committee. Antony is also in charge of party affairs in Karnataka. In 2006, he became the Minister of Defense of India.
It was Antony who introduced the ban on liquor in Kerala. Antony also allowed private managements to start self-financing higher education institutions.
AK Antony is married and the father of two children. Wife Elizabeth. Children Ajith and Anil.
Speaking at a public meeting in Ponnani
A.K. Anthony U.S. With Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
A.K. Anthony U.S. With Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta

This biographical article is a stub. Help develop this.

