Raktathilakam is a horror novel written by Gigi Chilambil. The novel moves forward through Ramabhadra. It all started with a picture of an eyeless beauty he bought from an art gallery exhibition. On the way to pick up the picture, a beautiful woman jumps in front of his car and begs him to save his sister. He is horrified by the ensuing trouble, as he is accompanied by the fairy in the picture. Absolutely unbelieving, he could not help but believe from the words of his wife's father, Sivasankara Panicker, that it was not a sorceress. Niranjan, a forest dweller, comes to teach Sugandhi, who is very talented in painting, to draw, and the two fall in love. While they are on the run, Chembakaraman's men kill Niranjan and rape Sugandhi. She then turns into a bloodthirsty, terrifying Brahmaraksha. She kills everyone who opposes her and Niranjan's relationship. With the help of her brother, she was overthrown centuries ago by the eruptions, but once again the fragrance rose with great force. She has a reason to be with Ramabhadra. Niranjan's rebirth is Ramabhadra. Ramabhadra goes to see Agnisharman to chase her back. That's when he learns the shocking truth. Sugandhi is not the daughter of Chembakamaraman but the daughter of a forest dweller named Adityan. If you want to kill her, you have to finish drawing the Krishnamani in the eyes of the picture lying in the hand of Ramabhadra. The famous painter has to recite mantras to draw it. Jayapal, a friend of Ramabhadra's, was ready for all this, but Sugandhi strategically destroyed the painting. Finally, she tells Ramabhadra. You are the reincarnation of my villain ങ്കിലും I need you at least this birth. The novel ends where. Sugandhi is not the daughter of Chembakamaraman but the daughter of a forest dweller named Adityan. If you want to kill her, you have to finish drawing the Krishnamani in the eyes of the picture lying in the hand of Ramabhadra. The famous painter has to recite mantras to draw it. Jayapal, a friend of Ramabhadra's, was ready for all this, but Sugandhi strategically destroyed the painting. Finally, she tells Ramabhadra. You are the reincarnation of my villain ങ്കിലും I need you at least this birth. The novel ends where. Sugandhi is not the daughter of Chembakamaraman but the daughter of a forest dweller named Adityan. If you want to kill her, you have to finish drawing the Krishnamani in the eyes of the picture lying in the hand of Ramabhadra. The famous painter has to recite mantras to draw it. Jayapal, a friend of Ramabhadra's, was ready for all this, but Sugandhi strategically destroyed the painting. Finally, she tells Ramabhadra. You are the reincarnation of my villain ങ്കിലും I need you at least this birth. The novel ends where. Finally she tells Ramabhadra. You are the reincarnation of my villain ങ്കിലും I need you at least this birth. The novel ends where. Finally she tells Ramabhadra. You are the reincarnation of my villain ങ്കിലും I need you at least this birth. The novel ends where.
