An integrated circuit, or IC, is the formation of several transistors, capacitors, resistors, and logic circuits in a single silicon crystal. Called.
With the invention of transistors came an exciting breakthrough in the field of electronics. Transistors dominated all devices. Although it performed better than vacuum tubes, the problems associated with attaching many components to a device, such as transistors, capacitors, and resistors, were aggravated. The problem can be exacerbated when complex equipment is added. Most of it is made using crystals like silicon. If all these are formed in the same crystal, the problem of coupling can be avoided. It was this thought that led to the invention of the famous integrated circuit. Kilby and Robert Noise are considered to be the founders of IC.
An integrated circuit chip is a small silicon chip made up of hundreds of transistors, diodes, resistors, and capacitors. The advantage of these is that they can be used to reduce the size of electronic devices, as they are smaller than the circuits that make up each component.
Jack did research at the Texas Instruments Foundation on innovative systems for reducing the size of circuits. The. The first IC was built in 1958 by scientist Kilby. Despite its many shortcomings, it was recognized worldwide. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 2000 for this. In the same year, a scientist named Robert Noise developed an improved IC, fixing the shortcomings of the IC built by Kilby.
A digital IC package may include logic gates, flip-flops, and counters. Linear IC packages may include everything other than the requirements for analog circuits.
IC can be easily and effectively used in everything except devices that require high power. Digital ICs typically have a power output of 1 watt or less. But for linear ICs the power can be up to 10 watts. ICs are characterized by low weight, small size, low cost, low power consumption, high quality and improved performance.
The picture shows the commonly used dual in-line packages. Shown in fig-a are these 8-pin units called mini DIPs. Fig. b is a DIP with 14 pins. DIP packages are usually packaged in ceramic or plastic cases. Fig-c and Fig-d are designed differently than usual.
The common circuits and ICs made up of circuit components are similar. However, there are some differences between them. Usually an IC consists of only transistors, diodes, and resistors. Incorporating an inductor into an IC is never feasible. Also, only small capacitors with pF values ​​can be included in ICs. If inductors or high cost capacitors are required, they may need to be installed in addition to the IC.
Above is a picture of a typical construction of ICs with 8 pins. Actually IC but are small silicon pieces extracted from silicon wafer as shown in the picture. It can accommodate all components, even if their size is less than 1 square mm. The cover of the silicon chip is made of plastic or ceramic.
Small IC chips are made into large groups as shown in the picture. They are made of silicon wafers that are 1.5 inches to 2 inches in diameter and 0.01 inches thick. A wafer can have hundreds of chips. Doping is the chemical process of adding waste / other substances to pure matter. The wafer obtained after a series of complex operations is examined and cut into hundreds of ICs. IC is actually just a tiny silicon chip in an IC package.
ICs with bipolar or positive and negative charge differentials are made of NPN or PNP transistors. Silicon NPN transistors are commonly used for this purpose.
The figure shows the fabrication of silicon NPN transistors. The image shows the various layers of an NPN transistor after doping. That is, silicon dopes with a P-type material to make an NPN transistor.
Doping is repeated to the substance obtained by light doping. Darker ones indicate more doped areas. These are denoted by N +. These parts separate the different transistors in the same silicon wafer during construction. In this way the base is made by P-type doping and the emitter and collector are made by N-type doping. Such manufacturing processes involve controlled doping with vaporized waste. It then forms an insulating coating with silicon dioxide on top of the doped chip. It is then connected to the outside of the emitter, base and collector with a small aluminum wire. Bipolar ICs are made up of hundreds of such transistors on the same chip.
Above is a diagram of a MOS-style IC chip. The material is then lightly doped with P-type material. It is then doped with N-type material in two places and connected by an N-channel. An insulator coating is then made with silicon dioxide. It is then connected to the source and drain with aluminum. Connects to the material obtained by doping first from the source as in the picture. Therefore, the gate pin does not connect to the N-channel. As a result we get an insulated-gate field-effect transistor.
When a positive voltage is applied to the gate, the number of electrons in the N-channel increases due to electrostatic induction and the flow of electrons from the source to the drain. Such ICs are widely used due to their low power consumption.

This technology-related article is a stub. Help develop this.
