Sanskrit is considered to be the oldest language in India and the mother tongue of many other modern languages. Sanskrit literature begins with the Vedas. The use of Sanskrit literature can be found in Hindu scriptures. The various stages of Sanskrit literature over time can be described as follows.
The Vedas are believed to have been written around 1500-600 BC. The four Vedas are Rig Veda, Yajurveda, Samaveda and Atharvaveda. Each of these Vedas contains Samhitas and many Brahmanas, Aranyakas and Vedangas. Each scripture has four parts. Praise to God, rituals, meditations and principles. The Upanishads are a part of the Vedas. Its content is purely philosophical. The composition of the Vedas has been shaped by many individuals over time. Therefore, the Vedas are sufficient to give an insight into Indian culture and history.
Of the four Vedas, each Veda has a section called Samhita and Brahman. Aranyakas are the appendages of the Brahmins. Appendices of the Aranyakas and the Upanishads. The Scriptures contain many verses from each of these commentaries.
As a continuation of the Vedic literature, between 500 and 100 BC, knowledge was incorporated into sutras in the form of essays. It contained the Vedangas, the Brahma Sutras, the Yoga Sutras and the Nyaya Sutras. Grammar and phonology are described in the Vedas.
The Mahabharata is a poetic work. Apart from its poetic beauty, this book also contains Hindu myths, principles and religious beliefs. The author of this book is Vyas. Based on the Adiparva of the Mahabharata, it can be seen that there were 8800 verses in this book at the beginning and it was known as Jayam at that time. Later, Vaishampayanan wrote about 24,000 verses under the title Bharatham. The story revolves around a quarrel between two families living in the city of Hastinapur. This is what is said about the Mahabharata.
"Dharme cha arthe cha kame cha mokshe cha bharatarshabha
യത് ഇഹ അസ്തി തദ് അന്യത്ര യദ്ന ഇഹ അസ്തി തത് ക്വചിത് "
Ramayana is a book written by Valmiki who deserves the title of Adikavi. It was first spread by word of mouth. It was written many centuries later. The main story is about a prince named Raman who lives in Ayodhya. Like the Mahabharata, the Ramayana played a significant role in the development of Indian culture
Most Sanskrit plays were written between the 2nd century BC and the 7th century AD. Most of the Sanskrit plays were full of romance.
A play written by Shudrakan in the second century BC.
Thirteen plays have been found to belong to him. The fourteenth was discovered by Ganapati Shastri in 1913. The most famous plays are Swapnavasavadattam and Pratigya Yaugandharayanam.
He has written three famous plays - Vikramorvasiyam, Malavikagnimitram and Abhijnanashakunthalam. He is the author of two great epics - Raghuvamsa and Kumarasambavam. He is also the author of the poems Ritu Samaharam Meghdoot. Kalidasa's language style is simple and elegant and full of many parables. That is why there is a saying "Upama Kalidasasya".
Bharatamuni's Natyashastra is an important work in Sanskrit literature. Not enough information is available about the author. The book deals with the various arts used to express emotions. In this book, Bharathan has given many guidelines mainly on music, dance, literature and theater. This book is the basis of the arts in India. This book itself is the basis for the tastes required for expressions. Bharathan composed nine rasas called Navarasas. The nine tastes of drama are wonder, humor, compassion, romance, serenity, terror, heroism, horror, and cruelty.
The writing of Hindu mythology took place mainly between the 5th and 10th centuries. The Puranas are divided into Maha and Upa. These books mainly cover 5 topics. Those ones
The Puranas mainly depict any one deity as the chief.
Raghuvansammegha sandesannarayaniyambrahma sutramupadesasahasribhaja geavindammandukyakarikadasakumaracaritanlilatilakanramayanammahabharatammahabhagavatambhagavat gitapancatantrammanusmrtiparasarasmrtiyajnavalkya smrtibrahmapurananvisnupuranansivapuranambhagavatapuranampadmapuranannaradapuranammarkkandeyapuranambhavisyapurananlingapurananvarahapuranambrahmavaivarttapurananskandapurananvamanapuranammatsyapuranankurm'mapuranangarudapuranambrahmandapuranamagnipurananguru gitasiva gita'udhdhava Gita
This literary work is a stub. Please help improve this article or section by expanding it.
