Islam
Allah - The Oneness of God Prophecy of the Prophet Muhammad The Last Day
Faith വ Prayer • Zakat Pilgrimage
Muhammad ibn Abdullah Abu Bakr al-Siddiq 'Umar ibn Khattab' Uthman ibn Affan Ali ibn Abi Talib Companions • Salaf Prophets Ahl al-Bayt
Qur'an, Prophethood, Hadith, Fiqh, Shariah 
Hanafi Maliki Shafi Hambali
Sunni Sufi Sufi Salafi Movement
Masjid al-Haram • Masjid al-Nabawi Masjid al-Aqsa 
Art, Philosophy, Architecture, Muslim Mosques, Hijra Year Celebrations
Islam and Criticism
The Gate of Islam
Omar bin Khattab or Caliph Umar was the second caliph of the Islamic Caliphate. He was a companion of the Prophet Muhammad and ruled for 10 years after the first Caliph Abu Bakr. During his reign Egypt, Persia and Constantinople were conquered.
He was born in 583 AD, the son of Qatab ibn Nufayl of the Banu Adiyy family of the Quraish tribe of Makkah, and Hantama, the daughter of Hashimibnu Mughera of the Maqsoom family. However, the birth rate is 586 and 591 respectively. Umar's age difference with Muhammad is 13 years. She was the wife of Zainab bint Madin, Malika bint Jarwal, Quraibah bint Abi Umayya al-Maqsoomi, Umm Hakim bint al-Harith ibn Hisham, Jameela bint Azim, Atiqa bint Saeed, Umm Khaltum bint Ali, Luhya, and Fakira. He had thirteen children. Their names were Syed Akbar, Syed Azhar, Azim, Abdullah, Abdul Rahman Akbar, Abdul Rahman Wasad, Abdul Rahman Azhar, Ubaidullah, Iyad, Hafsa, Rukia, Zainab and Fatima.
Umar was one of the few literate Arabs of the time. As a child, he devoted his life to herding sheep and camels. Entering the trade as a young man, he regularly traveled with his trade team to Syria and Yemen. However, it was not financially prosperous. Umar was more interested in literature and gaining knowledge. He learned martial arts at a young age and there was no one in and around Makkah to defeat him. He had a special ability to work equally with both hands. Umar was the idol of young men and women in Arabia at that time. His ability to mediate disputes made him a respected figure among the Arabs.
Who came to Makkah as a prophet of God
Omar, who was a staunch enemy of the Prophet before converting to Islam, became a close friend and follower of the Prophet after he converted to Islam. He married Hafsa, the daughter of Umar's widow, and Umar became the father-in-law of the Prophet. The Prophet (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him) said, "If there was a Prophet after him, it would be Umar." The Prophet (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him) used to ask 'Umar for his opinion on administrative matters. The Qur'an was often revealed in support of 'Umar. For example, when the hypocrite Abdullah bin Ubayy died, the Prophet Muhammad prayed for him. He also attended funerals. But Umar was against it. Soon after, the Qur'an was revealed confirming 'Umar's opinion. Never pray for any of them who dies. And do not go near his grave. The statement of the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him) that "Allah has settled the truth in 'Umar's tongue and heart" is an example of his exalted personality. Due to his constant association with the Prophet and his diligence, zeal and intellect, he was able to grasp the depth and meaning of the Qur'an.
Prophet Muhammad did not determine his successor when he died. Umar suggested the name of Abu Bakr as caliph. At the same time, Umar took the initiative to secure the support of Abu Bakr and other followers of the Prophet. After the death of many Companions who had memorized the Qur'an during the Battle of Yamama, Umar Khalifa asked Abu Bakr to compile and preserve the Qur'an, and the Khalifah began to collect the Qur'an, which had been stored in cloths, skeletons, and palm fronds. During the reign of Caliph 'Uthman, more copies were made and distributed to the Muslim world.
When the sick caliph Abu Bakr asked the Companions to choose another caliph before his death, the Companions asked Abu Bakr to nominate a new caliph himself. Following this, Khalifa Abu Bakr, in consultation with prominent Companions, instructed Umar to take over as Caliph. Omar Khalifa, who initially refused to take over the post, took over the post at the insistence of Abu Bakr Siddique. One of the two speeches that Khalifa Umar made after taking office was to his family. That was the speech.
After the death of Abu Bakr al-Siddiq, the first caliph, Umar bin Khattab became the second caliph. Umar's reign was a time of conquest. Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Egypt came under Muslim rule. Later, the Sassanian Persian Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire declined.
Umar ruled as caliph for ten years. In a short period of time, he built the largest government the world had ever seen in area, power and homeland security. Later rulers and thinkers openly praised Umar's rule, which focused on governance, public welfare, administration of justice, and the extent of the kingdom. Caliph Umar, who led a simple life without a palace or bodyguards, did not even have a nice house of his own. He often wore torn clothes.
Palestine, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon were known as Sam at the time. Yarmouk is the place where the main fort of the region was located. At the time of the death of Caliph Abu Bakr Siddiq, a decisive battle was taking place at Yarmouk with the Roman army led by Khalid bin Waleed. The caliph died after hearing the news of the victory of the Muslim army. As soon as he took charge as caliph, Umar instructed his army to drive out the enemy without losing his morale. Following the conquest of Yarmouk, the Roman emperor Hirkhal fled to Constantinople. The Muslim army started marching towards Sam. Abu Ubaidah was the commander-in-chief. This was followed by the Muslim rule of the historic Baitul Muqaddis. Although the Christians were defeated militarily, he insisted that Baitul Makdis be released only if the caliph was confronted. The Muslims accepted the proposal put forward by the Christians in order to avoid bloodshed. The Caliph left Madinah and reached Bait al-Maqdis. Some of the Muslims wanted the caliph to dress elegantly in the guise of a commoner. But 'Umar replied: "Our glory is in Islam, not in clothes." The Caliph entered Bethlehem. The Patriarch spoke with Swafernius and other Christian leaders. He wrote a letter of protection in his own handwriting to the inhabitants of Quds. Thus, Syria, Palestine and the surrounding areas came under Islamic rule. This was in A.D. 638. But 'Umar replied: "Our glory is in Islam, not in clothes." The Caliph entered Bethlehem. The Patriarch spoke with Swafernius and other Christian leaders. He wrote a letter of protection in his own handwriting to the inhabitants of Quds. Thus, Syria, Palestine and the surrounding areas came under Islamic rule. This was in A.D. 638. But 'Umar replied: "Our glory is in Islam, not in clothes." The Caliph entered Bethlehem. The Patriarch spoke with Swafernius and other Christian leaders. He wrote a letter of protection in his own handwriting to the inhabitants of Quds. Thus, Syria, Palestine and the surrounding areas came under Islamic rule. This was in A.D. 638.
After the Palestinian conquest, Amrubn al-Az led the army to Egypt. Amrubnul Aas conquered the city of Pharma, known as the Gateway to Egypt. Then came the constant war. Within three years, Egypt was completely under Islamic rule. The Muslims also built a new city called Fustwat on the banks of the Nile.
Formerly known as Persia, it included present-day Iran and Iraq. Persia and parts of the Arabian Peninsula were then ruled by the Sassanian Persian Empire.
The Persian Empire came under Arab rule with the historic battle of Khadisiya. Sa'd ibn Abi Waqas was the commander of the Muslim army in the battle between 15 and 16 AH in the plain of Qadisiyah across the Tigris River in Iraq. The Persian army was led by the famous warrior Rustam Farooqsad. On the Muslim side there were about thirty thousand soldiers. The Persian army was more than double that. Following the victory of Qadisiyah, the Persian capital, Madain, surrendered to Islam. .
The Persian emperor Yasdarjir III attempted a war against the Islamic State. At Nahawant, on the border of Iraq and Iran, the Muslim army, led by Numan ibn Mukhr, completely defeated the Persian army. This battle became known as Fathul Futuh. The battle was won, but the leader of the army, Numanubnu Muqrin, was killed in the battle. The Muslims then advanced to all parts of Iran. Khorasan came under the control of the Muslim army. Yasdarjird III left.
One day, while Umar was leading a morning prayer in the Masjid al-Nabawi, Fayrouz Abu Lu'l al-Majusi, a Persian who was standing in the front row, suddenly stabbed Umar with a dagger. Historians believe that the assassination of Firuz was the result of a conspiracy by the Persian general Hurmusan, the Christian leader of Hira, Jufaina, and the Jewish priest Kabul Ahbar. His body was buried in Madinah near the graves of the Prophet Muhammad and the first caliph, Abu Bakr al-Siddiq.

Enjoy the winter solstice; Hey; Why don't you raise Umar Farooq again, Mecca?
—Allama Iqbal 
Umar is an infidel in the view of the Shias. Shiites celebrate his death and celebrate the Feast. They portrayed Abu Lu'l-Majusi, who killed him, as a Muslim, and they call him Baba Shujauddin because of the controversy surrounding the house of Umar Fatima. Shia Muslims believe that Umar was responsible for Fatima's death. For this reason, they curse Umar





Abbad basar'abbas bin Abdul Ibn Abdul muttalibabdullahibnu abbasabdullahibnu asadabdullahibnu masudabdulahibnu ravaha'abdullahibnu sailamabdullahibnu ubayyabdullahibnu um'mimakhtumabdullahibnu subair'abdullahibnu hudapha'abdullahibnu Jafar Abdul rahmanubnu abibakkar'abdur rahmanubnu auphabu ayyubil ansari'abubakkar siddikhabudar rul giphari'abu dujana'abu phuhayara'abu nature mugira'abu hurayra'abu lubaba Bin Bin Abdul mundir'abusuphyanubunu harbabu suphyanubnu harithabu Obaid Bin Bin ian rahabul hospital rabi'a'abu darda'aabu husadaipha Ibn Utbah
അബൂ മൂസൽ അഷ്അരി Abu-Sa'id al-KhudriAkib ibn UsaidAl-Ala'a Al-HadramiAl-Bara 'ibn Malik Hasan Hussein Al Aminah bint Wahab ad ബിലാൽ ഇബ്നു രബാഹ് Bilal ibn al-HarithFadl ibn AbbasFatima bint AsadFatima bint HizamFayruz al-DaylamiHabibah bint Ubayd-AllahHalima Sadia ഹംസ ബിൻ അബ്ദുൽ മുത്തലിബ് Harithah bint al-Muammil Abi Bait
Hisham ibn Al-AasHudhayfah ibn al-YamanHujr ibn AdiIkrimah ibn Abi JahlJa`far bin Abī TālibJulaybibKhabbab ibn al-ArattKhalid ibn Sa`id Khalid Bin Waleed Khunais ibn HudhaifaKumayl ibn ZiyadKhuzaymat ibn sabetLayla bint al-MinhalLubaba bint al-HarithLubaynah Malik Ibn Dinar Malik al-DarMalik ibn AshterMalik ibn NuwayrahMus`ab ibn UmaUmairMiqdad ibn AswadMuadh ibn JabalMuawiyah ibn Abu SufyanMughira ibn Shu'baMuhammad ibn Abi BakrMuhammad ibn MaslamahNawfal ibn KhuwaylidNusabah
QatadahRab'ah ibn UmayahRabi'ah ibn al-HarithSa`ad ibn ar-Rabi`Sa`ad ibn Abi WaqqasSaffiyah bint 'Abd al-MuttalibSaid ibn Aamir al-JumahiSa'id ibn ZaydSalim Mazla Abu Hay al-HarithUmah bint Zainab Umm Kulthum bint Ali Umm UbaysUbb Zibd ZaydUtbah Ghazwan Usb bin Ubman Hib
