The Janata Dal (JD (U)) is a left-leaning political party. Deve Gowda is the party leader. The party has been recognized as a state political party in the states of Karnataka and Kerala. The party was formed in July 1999 following the split of the Janata Dal. The party has its roots mainly in Karnataka and Kerala. In Kerala, this party is part of the Left Democratic Front.
The Janata Dal party has its roots in the Janata Party formed by Jayaprakash Narayan. It was this party that brought together all the political parties against Indira Gandhi in the 1977 national elections. The Janata Party split twice. The Bharatiya Janata Party was formed through the 1979 and 1980 divisions. Members of the old Jana Sangh who were close to the RSS dropped out of the Bharatiya Janata Party.
The Janata Dal was formed in Bangalore in 1988 by the Janata Party and smaller opposition parties. In May 1996, the leader of the Janata Dal Secular, H.D. Deve Gowda became the Prime Minister of India as the leader of the United Front government.
The Janata Dal split in 1999 and some leaders formed the Janata Dal to join the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance. Jorge Fernandez was the leader of the Janata Dal party. HD Deve Gowda continued to be the leader of the Janata Dal party. Despite opposition to joining the National Democratic Alliance, Deva Gowda had maintained an equal distance with the Congress from the outset. The party returned to Karnataka in the 2004 elections and became part of the ruling coalition. This was followed by HD. Kumaraswamy to join BJP for 20 months Ruled with support.
Currently, the Janata Dal is the third largest party in the Karnataka Assembly. Now sharing the rule.Party leader H.D. Kumaraswamy is the Chief Minister
In 2005, Siddaramaiah and his followers left the party and joined the Indian National Congress. Philosopher Surendra Mohan, MP Veerendrakumar, Mrinal Gore, PGR Scindia expelled Deve Gowda and his gang from the party in 2006 for their alliance with the BJP. Deva Gowda suspended the rebels from the party. They decided to stay as Janata Dal. But it was the Deve Gowda faction that got the approval. Veerendra Kumar and activists in Kerala returned to the Janata Dal to oppose the nuclear bill. P.G.R. Scindia and J.D. He later returned to the party. But Surendramohan and a few others formed a new party called the Samajwadi Janata Party. Veerendra Kumar and a large section of the party later formed the Socialist Janata Party.
