Baha California, officially the "Free and Sovereign State of Baha California", is a state in Mexico. It is the northernmost and westernmost of the 31 states in Mexico. Prior to statehood in 1953, the area was known as the "Northern Territory of Baha'i California." The total area of ​​the state is 70,113 sq km. The western side of the mainland is bordered by the Pacific Ocean and the eastern Mexican state of Sonora, the U.S. state of Arizona, and the Gulf of California. To the south is Mexico's "Baja California Sir" state and to the north is the United States state of California.  
The total population of this Mexican state as of June 2009 was 3,165,776.) More than 75% of the state's population lives in the state capitals of Mexico City, Ensanada and Tijuana. Other major cities in the state are San Felipe, Rosarito and Toketo. The population of this state is European mixed with the Mestizos, most of whom are immigrants from other parts of Mexico, especially a large number of people of European descent and ethnicity from the Middle East. And a large section of the population from the United States, due to scarcity; Sects from Central America have also immigrated here. Most people move to Baja California in search of a higher standard of living and higher wages than in Mexico and other Latin American countries.
Baja California is the twelfth largest state in Mexico by geography. The landscape of the state is a mixture of beaches, forests and deserts. The backbone of the state is Sierra de Baja California. This is where Picacho del Diablo, the highest point on the peninsula, is located. This mountain range effectively divides the climate of the state. The climate of the Northwest Territory is semi-arid Mediterranean. The climate is more humid due to the elevation in the narrow middle. This area is home to a few valleys, such as the Valle de Guadeloupe. This valley is the largest wine producer in Mexico. The eastern part of the mountain range is dominated by the Sonoran Desert. Heading south, the climate becomes drier and opens the way to the Viscaino Desert. There are numerous islands off the coast of the state. Guadalupe Island, the westernmost tip of Mexico, belongs to Baja California. The other major islands off the Pacific coast are Coronado Island, Todos Santos Island and Cedros Islands. Angel de la Guardia is the largest island in the Gulf of California. The Angel de la Guardia separates the peninsula with a deep and narrow canal called the Canal de Ballenas. Angel de la Guardia is the largest island in the Gulf of California. The Angel de la Guardia separates the peninsula with a deep and narrow canal called the Canal de Ballenas. Angel de la Guardia is the largest island in the Gulf of California. The Angel de la Guarda separates the peninsula with a deep and narrow canal called the Canal de Ballenas.  
It is estimated that humans first inhabited this peninsula about 11,000 years ago. At that time, there were two major groups of Native Indians. The southern part was inhabited by the Kochimi tribe and the northern Yuman language family by the Kiliva, Pipai, Kumei, Kokoppa, Kwochan and some other indigenous tribes. These people adapted to the environment in different ways. In the desert areas of the central part of the peninsula, the Cochinas made a living by hunting and constantly moving from one place to another. However, the Cochinis, who inhabited the island of Cedros off the west coast, had built up a particularly strong coastal economy. Kiliva, Hunters also lived in the northwestern part of the country, with slightly better water availability, such as Pipai and Kumei. But the area was more densely populated and more and more people were living in the same place. The Kokoppa and Quechuan tribes of northeastern Baja California practically farmed fertile floodplains in the lower reaches of the Colorado River.
Another species that inhabited here was the Guachimis. They came here from the northern regions. It is believed that they contributed much to the painting of the Sierra de Guadalupe Cave. No further information is available about them, except that they lived in the area between 100 BC and the arrival of European immigrants, as well as rock paintings that are considered World Heritage Sites.
In 1539, European immigrants arrived in what is now Baja California. Francisco de Uloya reached the eastern shores of the Gulf of California region and expanded his exploration to the western coast of the peninsula and near the northern island of Cetros. Hernando de Allercon re-emerged on the east coast and dominated the lower reaches of the Colorado River in the 1540s. Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo completed the survey of the west coast in 1542. Sebastian Wiscaino conducted another survey of the west coast in 1602, but until the following century, visitors from outside reached only a handful. In 1697, Jesuit missionaries established a permanent conversion colony at Loreto. In later decades, they subjugated the whole of what is now Baja California. From 1751 to 1753, Ferdinand Konskak, an explorer on the Croatian Jesuit Mission, expanded his exploration of the northern region into what is now Baja California. Among the Cochin tribe, proselytizing missions were established in 1752 under the names of Santa Gertrudis, in 1762 in San Borja, and in 1767 in Santa Maria. The area was under the control of Franciscan missionaries only for a short time in 1768 after the expulsion of the Jesuit clergy. They formed a new missionary group called San Fernando Hurricane. To the northwestern part of the state in 1769 under the command of Gaspar de Portola and Junipero Cera. From 1751 to 1753, Ferdinand Konskak, an explorer on the Croatian Jesuit Mission, expanded his exploration of the northern region into what is now Baja California. Among the Cochin tribe, proselytizing missions were established in 1752 under the names of Santa Gertrudis, in 1762 in San Borja, and in 1767 in Santa Maria. The area was under the control of Franciscan missionaries only for a short time in 1768 after the expulsion of the Jesuit clergy. They formed a new missionary group called San Fernando Hurricane. To the northwestern part of the state in 1769 under the command of Gaspar de Portola and Junipero Cera. From 1751 to 1753, Ferdinand Konskak, an explorer on the Croatian Jesuit Mission, expanded his exploration of the northern region into what is now Baja California. Among the Cochin tribe, proselytizing missions were established in 1752 under the names of Santa Gertrudis, in 1762 in San Borja, and in 1767 in Santa Maria. The area was under the control of Franciscan missionaries only for a short time in 1768 after the expulsion of the Jesuit clergy. They formed a new missionary group called San Fernando Hurricane. To the northwestern part of the state in 1769 under the command of Gaspar de Portola and Junipero Cera. Conversion missions were established in 1762 in San Borja and in 1767 in Santa Maria. The area was under the control of Franciscan missionaries only for a short time in 1768 after the expulsion of the Jesuit clergy. They formed a new missionary group called San Fernando Hurricane. To the northwestern part of the state in 1769 under the command of Gaspar de Portola and Junipero Cera. Conversion missions were established in 1762 in San Borja and in 1767 in Santa Maria. The area was under the control of Franciscan missionaries only for a short time in 1768 after the expulsion of the Jesuit clergy. They formed a new missionary group called San Fernando Hurricane. To the northwestern part of the state in 1769 under the command of Gaspar de Portola and Junipero Cera.
Was the first to make a manual expedition and set up an immigration center in Alta California. In 1773, control of Baja California passed from Franciscan missionaries to Dominican missionaries. They formed some new ranks of missionary groups among the northern Cochin tribes and the Yuman tribes living in the western region. The El Rosario Mission was established in 1774, just south of the city of Tijuana, first on the coast and then inland, and in 1817, the Descanzo Mission.
In 1804, Spanish Colonia California was divided into Alta and Baja. The north side of the Line of Control was occupied by Franciscan missionaries and the south by Dominican missionaries. The colonial governors of the time were as follows:
1804–1805 Js Jacquin de Arillaga
1806–1814 Philippe de Goicocechia 
1814–11 April 1822 Jose Dorio Arguello 
· In 1833 the Mexican Secularization Act was passed. 
Alta captures California in 1848 and annexes it to the United States.
Baja California is an area that exhibits a diverse landscape over a small area. California's continuous mountain range extends to the center of the state. Notable mountain ranges include the Sierra de Juarez and the Sierra de San Pedro Martier. Picacho del Diablo is the highest mountain range on the peninsula. The climate in the valleys between the hills is ideal for cultivation. Oranges and grapes grow in such valleys as the Valle de Guadeloupe and the Valle de Ojos Negros. The mineral-rich mountains extend south to the Gulf of California. There, the western slopes widen and form the "Lanos del Berendo" plain on the Baja California border. In the southern and central highlands of the state, Sierra de Asamblia, Sierra de Kalamazue,
The temperate winds from the Pacific Ocean and the cool currents called the "California Current" in the Pacific Ocean make the northwest coast climate pleasant throughout the year. Due to the state's proximity to the California current, the peninsula receives barely any rainfall from the north. Thus the southern regions are dry. South of the El Rosario River, the state's climate changes from Mediterranean to desert. This desert vegetation shows the diversity in the area of ​​growth. The presence of permanent fog along the coast provides a favorable climate for the growth of fleshy watery vegetation.
On the east side, the Sonoran Desert enters the state of California and the Sonora region. Some of the highest temperatures in Mexico are recorded in or near the Mexican Valley. Irrigation from the Colorado River actually makes the region the center of the agricultural cloud. About 80 percent of the electricity used in the state comes from the province of Cerro Prieto, near the Mexican city. Most of the medicine is exported to California. Recently, the state government had started work to upgrade the lagoon salad. The highest mountain in the Sierra de los Cucapa Mountains is the Cerro del Sentinel or Mount Signal. Kukkappa is the name of an indigenous Indian tribe in this region and in the Yuma and Arizona regions.
Numerous islands are located along the Pacific coast. Guadalupe Island, located to the west of the state border, is home to the largest seal of seals. The island of Cedros in the southwest of the state has a slightly different climate between summer and monsoon. The Todos Santos Islands and Coronado Islands are located off the coasts of the cities of Ensenada and Tijuana. The Baja California side of the Gulf of California includes all the islands in the Municipality of Mexico.
Most of Baja California's water resources come from the Colorado River. Historically, the river reaches the mouth of the Colorado River and flows into the Gulf of Mexico. The amount of water reaching the Gulf is very low due to the high water consumption in the southwestern United States. The Tijuana metropolitan area also relies on the Tijuana River for water. Most rural areas in Baja California depend mainly on wells and a few dams for water. The city of Tijuana also buys water from the San Diego County Otto Water District. Drinking water scarcity is one of the major concerns in the state.  
The climate in Baha California varies from Mediterranean to arid. The Mediterranean climate is mainly observed in the northwestern corner of the state. Summers here are dry and temperate, winters are cold and accompanied by rain. This climate is found in areas from Tijuana to San Quintin and the adjacent inland valleys. The cold California current, an ocean current, forms a low-lying ice sheet along the coast. Such fog can occur over any part of the Pacific coast of the state.
The change in altitude as we move to Sierra de California creates an alpine climate in these regions. Summer is cool while winter is cool and below freezing at night. Snowfall is common in the Sierra de Juarez and Sierra de San Pedro Martier from December to April.
Due to orthographic effects, atmospheric precipitation is slightly higher in the mountains of northern Bahamas than on the western coast or eastern desert plains. The forests of the region are rich in pine, cedar and fir trees.
The eastern part of the mountains creates a rainforest area and creates a very dry environment. The Sonoran Desert in California enjoys hot summers and mild winters. The Mexican Valley, located below sea level, experiences the highest temperatures in Mexico. This temperature often exceeds 47 C in mid-summer and in some cases exceeds 50 C.
Further south along the Pacific coast, the Mediterranean climate changes and becomes a desert climate. But the difference is that it is moderate and not as hot as along the Gulf Coast.
Transitional climates from the Mediterranean to the desert range from San Quintin to El Rosario. Moving to more inland areas and throughout the Gulf of California, vegetation is much lower and temperatures are much higher during the summer months. The islands off the coast of California also experience desert weather. Some cities, such as San Borge and Santa Gertrude, are located near deserts.
The most common species found here are Jeffrey Pine, Sugar Pine and Pine Pine. The undergrowth includes Mansanita. There are many species of reptiles here, including the Western Fence Lizard. Baja California is a genus of fish native to the Baha California Peninsula.
Baja California's major surface wildlife sanctuaries, such as the Constitution 1857 National Park and the Sierra de San Petro Mart ധാരാളംr National Park, include many coniferous species; Suitable species include Pinus geoffrey, Pinus ponterosa, Pinus zembroidea, Pinus quadrifolia, Pinus monophyla, Juniperus, Arctostaphylos drupasia, Artemis ludoviciana, and Adenostoma esparsifolium. The flora includes a variety of flora found in the Laguna Mountains and the Sanjacinto Mountains in southwestern California. The lower levels of the Sierra Juarez have chapels and desert shrubs.
Many mammals are found in the parks of the national parks. These include the Mule Deer, Bighorn Sheep, Cougar, Bobcat, Ringtail Cat, Coyote, Rabbit, and Annan, and more than 30 species of bats. Bird species such as the Bald Eagle, Golden Eagle, Falcon, Woodpecker, Black Eagle and Crow, as well as many species of sparrows and ducks are found here.
