Tasmania is a major island in Australia and the smallest state.
In addition to the island of Tasmania, it includes more than 50 small islands, including the Farnox archipelago. Area: 68,114 sq. Km, including islands. Km, Population: 459659.
240 km off the southeast coast of the Australian mainland. M In the distance, Tasmania is located between the Tasman Sea and the Indian Ocean. 225 km M A wide bass strait separates it from the mainland. 1642 by Abel Jansoon Tasman. The area was first discovered on the 24th.
Numerous snow-capped peaks, hills, and lush green valleys add to the Tasmanian landscape. The crystal clear lakes, beaches, farmlands, gardens and orchards are all beautiful. Tasmania is thought to be a landlocked country off the eastern plateau of Australia. Oza Peak is the highest point. The major plateaus are the central plateau, the high plateaus parallel to the west coast, the southern highlands, and the northern plateau.
Tasmania experiences a temperate climate throughout the year. Rainfall varies according to the landscape.
Tasmania is water rich. The major rivers are the Tamar, the Derwent, the Huon, and the Arthur. The capital, Hobart, is located at the mouth of the Dervant River. Hydroelectricity is generated extensively from the Tasmanian rivers. About half of Australia's hydropower comes from Tasmania. There are many lakes in Tasmania. Great Lake is one of them. Other important lakes are the Sorrel, St. Clair, Arthur and AK. Lakes are the source of most major rivers.
Vegetation is climatic. Eucalyptus forests in temperate climates, eucalyptus forests in temperate climates, low eucalyptus forests and savanna grasslands in dry areas. The Tasmanian Devil and the Tasmanian Tiger are the only animals found here.
Tasmania has a diverse economy. After World War II, the region, along with other parts of Australia, underwent radical economic development. The manufacturing sector is dominated by the electro-metallurgical and electro-chemical industries. The agricultural sector here is very important for the production of fruits and vegetables. Apples are the main fruit. Pears, raspberries and black currants are other important fruits. Other crops include barley, oats, hops, and wheat. The combination of climate, topography and soil characteristics gives Tasmania a different way of life. വ. Livestock and butter production in the regions, goat rearing and wool production in the central regions, The. Km. The production of fruits and hops in the valleys is also a major source of livelihood. 46 percent of Tasmania's land area. And forests. The main trees are eucalyptus and pine. Forest resources are being utilized for industrial and domestic purposes. Fishing is mainly concentrated in coastal areas. The mining industry in Tasmania is highly developed. Investments include tin, tungsten, copper, silver, lead and zinc. Refined metals, metal products, textiles, processed foods, and paper are the main industrial products. And zinc are preferred. Refined metals, metal products, textiles, processed foods, and paper are the main industrial products. And zinc are preferred. Refined metals, metal products, textiles, processed foods, and paper are the main industrial products.
The major industries are the electrolytic zinc refinery in Risden, the aluminum and belt manganese industry in Belt Bay, and the carbide production in Snag. The Zinc Refinery in Risden is one of the largest refineries in the world. 40 per cent of Australia's total consumption. Newsprint is produced in Boer, Tasmania.
In 1998, the passable 24,000 km. M Roads were in Tasmania. There are plenty of railways in the area. The Tasmanian coastline is rich in natural harbors. The major ports are Hobart, Bernie, Launceston and Downport. An active airline network connects Tasmania to the Australian mainland.
Tasmania is the least populous state in Australia. Migration to the Australian mainland plays an important role in controlling population growth here. People have migrated to Tasmania from European countries, including Britain, and from outside Europe. Until 1856 the area was known as 'Van Diemens Land'.
Tasmania plays a vital role in Australia's educational development. Tasmania was the first British colony to launch a compulsory education program. Tasmania also became the first state to raise the age limit for high school education to 16. Compulsory education is available here for 6-16 year olds.
History. Tasmania was discovered by the Dutch sailor Abel Tasman. He named the islands Van Diemen's Land in honor of Antonio van Diemen, the governor general of the East Indies who authorized Tasman's tour. Later, French and English sailors toured the area. In 1777 James Cook visited the area. Great Britain occupied the area in 1803 and established a penal colony. Apart from accommodating British criminals, free immigration was also allowed here. Early British occupation began around 1804. The islands were ruled by New South Wales until 1825. Later, after the formation of a separate colony, there was a Legislative Assembly and an Executive Committee nominated for administration. The country experienced a recession in the late 1840s. The people raised their voices for a representative government and for an end to the deportation of criminals to Britain. The system of electing members to the Legislature was introduced in 1851; Detention of convicts was abolished in 1853. The Constitution, the bicameral legislature and the governing body came into being in 1856. The island was renamed Tasmania in 1856 instead of Van Diemens Land. The Great Depression of 1857 lasted a long time; There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. The people raised their voices for a representative government and for an end to the deportation of criminals to Britain. The system of electing members to the Legislature was introduced in 1851; Detention of convicts was abolished in 1853. The Constitution, the bicameral legislature and the governing body came into being in 1856. The island was renamed Tasmania in 1856 instead of Van Diemens Land. The Great Depression of 1857 lasted a long time; There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. The people raised their voices for a representative government and for an end to the deportation of criminals to Britain. The system of electing members to the Legislature was introduced in 1851; Detention of convicts was abolished in 1853. The Constitution, the bicameral legislature and the governing body came into being in 1856. The island was renamed Tasmania in 1856 instead of Van Diemens Land. The Great Depression of 1857 lasted a long time; There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. The system of electing members to the Legislature was introduced in 1851; Detention of convicts was abolished in 1853. The Constitution, the bicameral legislature and the governing body came into being in 1856. The island was renamed Tasmania in 1856 instead of Van Diemens Land. The Great Depression of 1857 lasted a long time; There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. The system of electing members to the Legislature was introduced in 1851; Detention of convicts was abolished in 1853. The Constitution, the bicameral legislature and the governing body came into being in 1856. The island was renamed Tasmania in 1856 instead of Van Diemens Land. The Great Depression of 1857 lasted a long time; There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth. There was also political instability. After 1880, as the economy improved, so did the agricultural and industrial sectors. The movement for the Australian Federation began in the 1890s. In 1901, Tasmania became a state in the Australian Commonwealth.
Although the governor of the state of Tasmania is the governor, the real ruler is the prime minister and cabinet, who are accountable to parliament. The state legislature has two constituencies; The lower house is the House of Assembly and the upper house is the Legislative Council. The state has 5 members in the House of Representatives and 10 members in the Senate in the Australian Parliament.
 * Tasmania Online — the main State Government website * Discover Tasmania — official tourism website * University of Tasmania Tasmanian photograph collection 
This article or section needs sources or references that appear in credible, third-party publications. Help develop this.
