He is a Jnanpith Award winning Malayalam novelist, travel writer and poet. Sankarankutty Kunhiraman Pottekkad alias Pottekkad. He received the Jnanpith Award in 1980 for his novel The Story of a Country.
Biography
Statue of SK Pottakad at Mithaitheru, Kozhikode
He was born on March 14, 1913 in Kozhikode. His father Kunhiraman Pottekkat was an English school teacher. He was educated at Ganapath School, Chalappuram, Kozhikode. After obtaining Intermediate from the Zamorin College, Kozhikode, he worked as a teacher in a Gujarati school in Kozhikode from 1937-1939. It was during this time that he developed an interest in travel. His later world tour, based on his reputation, began in 1939 with a trip to Bombay. Worked in Bombay for some time. During this period he tried to travel all over India. During his travels, Pottekat gained experiences that renewed his sense of life and literary taste. In 1949, he made his first foreign voyage by sea. Europe, Africa, America, South Asia, He visited most of the countries in the East and East several times and interacted with the common people in each place. S. for the most innovative travelogue in Malayalam. K's contributions are valuable.
Publishing the story. It was the story of Rajneeti that appeared in Zamorin College Magazine. In 1929, he published a poem titled Madhyam, which killed his son, at Atmavidya Kahalam in Kozhikode. In 1931, the story Hindu-Muslim Friendship was published in Deepam, a magazine edited by Murkot Kumaran from Ernakulam. Subsequently, Mathrubhumi started publishing stories continuously in the weekly edition. The first novel is Folklore. It was written in 1939 in Bombay. The story of a street won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award, the story of a country won the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award, the Sahitya Pravarthaka Sahakaranasangham Award and the Jnanpith Award. He was a great genius in Malayalam literature.
He contested for the Lok Sabha from Thalassery in 1957 but lost by 1000 votes. Later in 1962, he defeated Sukumar Azhikode from Thalassery by 66,000 votes and was elected to the Lok Sabha. Pottekkat was one of the rare writers to reach the Lok Sabha through elections.
Pottekkat's first novel was Nadanprema published in 1939. This romantic work has earned him a place among the famous Malayalam writers. Vishakanyaka tells the story of Wayanad in the context of the migration from Travancore to Malabar in 1940. The novel won the Madras Government Award.
With the publication of his short novel Nadan Premam, he became famous in the field of fiction. His specialty is his ability to create a tidal wave of emotion in the minds of the readers ahead of an important theme. He adopted the method of turning current events into myths and placing them in the subconscious mind to make the subject pleasing to the reader.
His travelogues have been published in three volumes. Mathrubhumi Books is preparing a collection of Pottekkat's unpublished diaries entitled Paryadanam.

This biographical article is a stub. Help develop this.


