Leonardo da Vinci ˈvintʃi] was a famous Renaissance artist. He is considered one of the greatest painters of all time .He was born on April 15, 1519, in the village of Agiano, near Vinci, Florence, Italy, and died on May 2, 1519, at the palace of Claus Luce in France.
He was also known as a sculptor, painter, architect, scientist, physiologist, musician and writer. His father's name is Leonardo di Cerro Piero and his mother's name is Caterina. Da Vinci refers to his native Vinci, Italy.
His paintings of the Supper of the Church of Santa Maria della Gracie and the Mona Lisa are world famous for their artistic value. His thoughts were even before his time. His models for making helicopters, tanks and calculators are just that. He discovered the laws of aerodynamics, four hundred years before the invention of the airplane. In order to defeat Pisa in the battle between Florence and Pisa, a river dam was built under the leadership of Da Vinci.
A new style of painting was developed by Leonardo da Vinci. In those days, painters used white backgrounds to create paintings. Leonardo painted with a dark background. This gave a three-dimensional effect to the main object of the image. Da Vinci was famous for painting in a dark style with many shades.
Leonardo da Vinci was one of the heroes of the Renaissance. Audavinchi, who was very interested in real painting, once dismembered a corpse to learn how the human body works.
Da Vinci's full name is Leonardo di Cerpero da Vinci, which means that Leonardo is the son of Mess.
Da Vinci spent five years of his childhood in his mother's house, Anchiano, in Hamlet, and from 1457 he lived with his father, paternal grandparents, and uncle in Vinci, a small town in Francesca. Da Vinci's father later married 16 - year - old Albeira Amadori. But she died at a young age. At the age of sixteen, Da Vinci remarried his father, Francesca Lanfredini, 20, but they too died before they could have children.
Da Vinci was educated in Latin, mathematics and geography. Only two later tales of Da Vinci are recorded.
In 1466, at the age of fourteen, Leonardo was trained by Veroccio, also known as Andrea de Cayon. In "one of the best workshops in Florence" belonged to Veracio. Leonardo is a versatile genius who specializes in drafting, chemistry, metalworking, metalworking, plaster casting, leatherworking, mechanic carpentry, drawing, painting, sculpting and modeling.
Most of the paintings presented by Verocchio's workshops were painted by his disciples. According to Vasari, to help Verocchi complete the baptism of Leonardo Christ, a young angel in the painting could not support Jesus, so his mentor, Verrocchio, never dreamed of a new picture. Used. Veroccio painted the rocks visible through the stream in the coffee-colored mountains, and beyond, witnessing the hands of Jesus Leonardo.
In 1472, at the age of 20, Leonardo became the founder of the ST, the Guild of Artists and Doctors of Medicine. Luke was chosen to be Guild's mentor. After his father's death, Leonardo ran his own workshop, where he collaborated with Verochi.
According to court records in Florence, 1476, Leonardo and three other young men were arrested for sodomy, but were acquitted. There is no record of his work after that date until 1478. He left Verocchio's workshop in 1478 and returned to Leonardo's father's house, where he could no longer live. A writer named "Anonimo" Gondiano lived with Medici in the 1480s. Medici, a painter, poet, and philosopher at the Academy of Neo-Platonism, acknowledged that he was working at the Garden of the Pizza in San Marco, Florence.
In 1482, Leonardo, a famous musician, made a lyre in the shape of a horse's head. In order to maintain his friendship with Ludovico Sforza and the Duke of Milan, Lorenzo de 'Medici sent Lyre to Milan with Leonardo as a gift.
Leonardo worked in Milan from 1482 to 1499. In the meantime, the image of the Virgin of the Rocks was painted for the Holy Communion, and then for the Last Supper for the Virgin of Santa Maria delle Gracie. In the spring of 1485, Leonardo represented Ludovico in Hungary, and he went to see Matthias Corvinus, who is thought to have painted a picture of the Holy Family. Claimed to be the mother.

He has worked on a number of projects for Leonardo Ludovico. The earthen statue of the horse was completed in the 1480's. Leonardo began to create detailed outlines for it. Anyway, Michelangelo, Leonardo was accused of not being qualified to draft it. In November 1494, Ludovico donated the bronze to be used in artillery to protect the city from attack by Charles VIII.
During the Second Italian War in 1499, French troops used Gran Cavallo, a large-scale clay statue of a living man, to work. On the spot he also made plans to protect his city from enemy attacks. On his return in the 1500s, Leonardo and his family were guests of ministers at the monastery of Santissima Anunciata, where they built a workshop for him.
In 1502, Caesar, son of Pope Alexander VI, falsely claimed to be the architect and engineer of the military, along with his father, in Caesar's. As a result, Caesar elevated Leonardo to his position as chief military engineer and sculptor. .
Leonardo returned to Florence on October 18, 1503, reunited with S. Luke's Guild, and remained there for two years, painting a mural for Signoria, The Battle of Cascina, by Michelangelo. In Florence 1504, he was part of a redesign against the will of the artists, against David, a stone made by Michelangelo.
Leonardo returned to Milan in 1506. His most important disciples, followers, and co-workers were in Milan. They include Bernardino Luini, Giovanni Antonio Boltrafillo and Marco di Ogiono. Around this time, Leonardo began to build a horse statue for Charles de Ampois II, the French governor of Milan. A wax figure still survives, and if it is clean, it is the only example of Leonardo's rock.
Leonardo did not stay long in Milan either. His father died in 1504. In 1507 he moved back to Florence and tried to settle the dispute with his brother over his father's estate. In 1508, Leonardo returned to Milan and settled in Porta Oriental, the parish land of Santa Babila.
Between September 1513 and 1516, when Michelangelo and Raphael were energetic, he lived most of his later life in Belvedere, the Vatican, located in Rome under Pope Leonardo X. In October 1515, the first King of France recaptured the lost Milan. On December 19, Leonardo appeared at a meeting of Francis IV and Pope Leo X in Bologna. Going forward for Leonardo Francis, he commissioned the idea that if its heart was opened a bunch of lilies could produce a mechanical lion of the kind that would come out. In 1516, he entered the service of Francois, for the purpose of a mansion, Close Luke, near the Chateau de Amois, the king's official residence.

Leonardo died May 2, 1519. Francis became a close friend of mine.
According to Vasari's records, King Leonardo's head was held in his hand at the time of Leonardo's death. 
Through the paintings of other French painters, as well as according to Angelica Kaufman, the myths may sometimes be more accurate than the truths. Melsey is the heir apparent and executor. These were the equal heirs of the vineyard. Leonardo's brother was given some land and the woman who cared for him was given a black watch with short furry edges.
Nearly 20 years after Leonardo's death, Francis told a goldsmith and Benvenuto Kellini, "I doubt there will ever be another like Leonardo da Vinci in this world, not because of paintings, sculptures, or creations, but because he was a great philosopher."
During Leonardo's youth, Florence was the center of Christian humanitarian culture. Vereacciyeayute pathanamanusthikkal started in 1466 under the goalie vereacciyeayute teacher or a great sculptor, Donatello mariccat.prespekrarivupayeagam early experiments, which was a brief Francesco Della vrd'dhanayirunnu.citrakaranmarayirunna Pierre Philippe lippi ukkellea a brief attempt to bring the images, silppiyayirunna Luca della reabiyayum, vastusilpiyayirunnaliyean Batista, Alberta tutannayavarellavarum their arupatukalilayirunnu.atutta Successful artists of the generation included Leonardo's mentor Andrea del Verrocio, Antonio de Pollo, photographer, and Mino da Pollo, who received encouragement and liking for sculptures ranging from Lorenzo Medici's father to the chest.
Leonardo's youth spent his time in Florence, adorned with paintings by the aforementioned painters, and the most striking murals in Florence's, with a touch of realism and emotion, gleaming with gilded gates of Giberti's paradise. Francesca studied perspective in detail, and later, for the first time, an artist conducted a scientific study of light in a scientific way. These studies, as well as Alberti's essays, gave a new impetus to young artists and Leonardo's own observations and works of art.
Born out of a line by Leonardo and inspired throughout its line, Masacchio's Exposition from the Garden of Eden depicts one of the strongest and most evocative aspects of Adam's and Eve's naked human form. , Especially at John the Baptist.
The world-famous tradition in Florence was the baby altar sculpture of the Virgin and Child. Most of these were made by Veroccio, Philip Lipo, or the extended Della Robia family, and the Madonna with Carnation is one of Leonardo's early paintings. In the case of Madonna, this combination theme has emerged in later paintings by Leonardo, such as The Virgin and Child with Saint Anna.
Beattikkelli samakalirarayirunnu'addehattekkal above the age of liyanardeayute time, Sandro, Dominican girlandaiyea, met Peter perugvinea ennivar.avar very next cannattamuntayirunna vereacciyeayute in the making, and Medi Medi istamuntayirunnu beattikkelliyeat yilumayirunnu.ivarile akkadami of a specific family, so onnayirunnu.pinneyulla girlandaiyeayam, perugvineayumphalavrd'dhiyullavarum decided by the midpoint of his success, Girlandio's ability to paint effective murals about the talented youth of Florence and the great religions, as well as the everlasting and completely dependable harmony of the Paraguayan saints and angels.They completed the commission efficiently and to the delight of the patrons, who praised their innocence and ability to draw.
The trio began commissioning the Sistine Chapel together with the work of Paraguay in 1479. However, Leonardo was not a part of this commission, which was very important. His first meaningful commission was not the Adoration of the Magi in Scopeto's monastery.
In 1476 Leonardo vereacciyeayute panippurayumayi kuticerunna the season, liyanardeayeyum, girlandaiyeayeyum, perugvineayeyum and other new types of highly influential citrakaranmareyum Painting tantrannaleatukutiya van der geayes of port alttarpis the image of Florence, considered the founder of the painter sikilyan anteanellea the mes'sina etticernnat.ennaccayacitraracanayute, led him in 1479, Giovanni Bellini endorsed the techniques of the oil painting and set out for Venice to make it one of his chosen strategies. It was then that Leonardo visited Venice.
Like two contemporary builders, Donato Bramon and Antonio da Sancallo the Elder, Leonardo experimented with architectural designs for churches, some of which appeared in his writings, designs and views, but none of them have yet been identified.
Leonardo's political contemporaries were Lorenzo Medici, three years older than him, and Lorenzo Medici, brother of Giulini, assassinated in the Passy Conspiracy in 1478. Ludovico, who ruled Milan from 1479 to 1499, sent Leonardo as ambassador from Medici court.
Along with Alberti, Leonardo Medici is credited with being the mastermind behind the new anthropologist Marciligo Ficino; , The brilliant philosopher Pico della Mirandola, was one of his contemporaries.But he still did not understand what he meant by those mysterious lines.
Leonardo, Michelangelo, and Raphael were not of the same generation, although the three giants of the Renaissance were generally named together. His construction continued.
During his lifetime, Leonardo's extraordinary ability to create, his "extraordinary body structure, his beauty", his "unparalleled splendor", his "great power", his generosity of character, and all the other aspects of his life have been described in great detail. One aspect of him is that he values ​​the values ​​of life, and according to Vasari, he would release the nesting birds wherever he could.
Leonardo had many friends, many of whom are now well-known in their own fields or for their historical significance. Leonardo has never been in close contact with any other woman, except for one of his friends, Kekillya Gallerani, and his two sisters, Isabella and Betrica. On his way to Mantua he made a photograph of Isabella, which is thought to have been used to paint another portrait, but this image was lost.
Beyond friendship, he kept the secrets of his life to himself. Leonardo's sexuality has been the subject of theory, analysis, and ridicule. This trend began in the mid-16th century and was later revived in the 19th and 20th centuries, most notably from Sigmund Freud. Leonardo probably had a close friendship with his disciples, Salai and Myles. According to court records, Leonardo was 21 when he and three young men, Sodomy was caught in a case with a male prostitute. However, due to lack of evidence, they were released. After that day, much was written about his homosexuality and his role in it, especially in John the Baptist's Backs and other similar films, as well as his sexuality and its settings.
Gyan Giacomo Caprotti da O'Reilly, nicknamed Salai, joined Leonardo's house as a housekeeper in the 1490's. Once the materials were found, the property was used for textiles. However, Leonardo happily lived in Salai, and Salai worked as Leonardo's housekeeper for the next thirty years. And other disciples of Marco de Oggiono,In 1515, Salai painted a nude portrait of Mona Lisa entitled Mona Vanna. The price was unusually high.
In 1506, Leonardo chose another disciple, Count Francesco Melci, son of Lombard Aristocrat, who became Leonardo's favorite disciple. Melsey traveled with Leonardo to France, where he remained until Leonardo's death. After Leonardo's death, Melsey inherited his artistic lines, scientific writings, collections, and estate.
However, Leonardo is best known and acclaimed as a scientist and producer, but his 400-year-old reputation has been enhanced by his reputation as a painter, hand-drawn lines, and other masterpieces.
All of these paintings are highly referenced, and have been widely discussed by scholars and writers alike. I was able to understand the physical changes and movements of that time and bring it into the human form of Leonardo's. Mona Lisa, The Last Supper and The Virgin and the Rock combine these extraordinary abilities of Leonardo's.
Leonardo's early paintings begin with Veroccio's Baptism of Christ. Below the other two paintings are the dates of Leonardo's workshop, both of which depict the Martian news. One is 59 cm long and 14 cm wide. Because it was a Predella image, it needed more space at the bottom, and this type of painting by Lorenzo de Credi was differentiated. The second is a slightly larger image, measuring 217 cm in length. In Fra Angelico 's most famous painting, Mariam, seated to the left of the image, is an angel with wings and a lily flower in glittering garments.
In the small picture, Mary's backward eyes and folded hands symbolize the will of God. The woman herself declares herself to be the Mother of God, not through submission to judgment, but with confidence.
Leonardo received two important commissions and started another film in compliance with the terms of the composition. His diary notes that it was related to a special situation: "I thought I was learning to live, but not so, I was learning to die."
However, the drawing was barely visible, and the writing style was visible, but unusual. The picture shows J. Wasserman, Leonardo's painting, and his connection to the study of physiology, as if drawn into a corner, and his gaze is drawn to the opposite side.The area is covered with rough rocks that lie opposite the shadow of the figure.
Based on a commission from the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith in San Donato, San Donato, Skopeto, 250 is a masterpiece, but an unfinished version of the 250, a masterpiece that combines bold, lyrical style with sets of personal dramatic landscapes. The size of it.Leonardo did numerous drawings and early studies.It contains nothing comprehensive about the linear perspective of the ruined classical architecture used for the backdrop, but was captured by Ludovico by Lonardo on the orders of Leonardo Lorenzo O'Donoghue in 1482. Abandoned.
The third most important painting of the period was the Virgin of the Rocks, commissioned in Milan for the sacred conception of the Confederacy. John the Baptist, a child who went to Egypt under the protection of an angel during the infancy of Christ, decided to draw Leonardo's fabricated stories of seeing the Holy Family. This painting depicts John in a way that identifies him as Leonardo and paints Jesus. And the falling stones and the weeping waters,
Leonardo's most famous painting of the 1490s was the Last Supper for the monastery of Santa Maria della Gracie in Milan. This picture shows me the Last Supper shared by Christ and his disciples as the last days of Christ were numbered. In this film, Leonardo wants to tell a surprising story.
The novelist Matteo Bandello wrote that he had observed a number of things while he was drawing, and that he would not eat for a few days, until sunset, but after that Leonardo would draw with him for three or four days. Vasari describes how much he suffered because of his ability to adequately describe the faces of Leonardo, Christ, and the apostate Jews, and said that Leonardo was indebted to the local governor for agreeing to use the Christian abbot of the monastery as an example for his image.
Thus, the film became a masterpiece of design and illustration at the completion of the film, but soon deteriorated, and within 100 years was described as "completely degraded". Began to use the technique of gaining prominence, and only then did it emerge and shine.
Mona Lisa or La Giaconda is a small portrait of Leonardo's 16th century paintings. The picture is described as "Laughing One". The picture was arguably world-famous during the Era era. , The painter may have subtly shaded the corners of his lips and eyes, so that the smile could not be determined.
Other features of the painting are the unadorned garments, the hands and eyes can not match any other details, the dramatic landscape and the background are seen in the form of a kind of flow, and the subdued teapot with oil paint, and the graceful nature of the background, with its strong painting textures As it mixes, the marks on the brush become indistinguishable. Understood with proper preservation, in those days, based on the date written on it, a return to panel painting,
Wasserman in Virgin and Child with ST Anna is described as a marvelous beauty, reflecting the theme of the film through its compositional landscape and its forms. Then Harkans is drawn to Jerome at a curved angle. What makes this picture different from the usual is that the two figures in the picture are drawn in two curved angles, one after the other. Mary is sitting on Mary Anna's mother, Anna's lap. These are signs of sacrifice. This painting, by many, has been copied many times, and has been the inspiration for Michelangelo, Raphael and Andrea del Sarto and then passed through Pontermo and Coregi.
Leonardo was not an elaborate illustrator, but a prolific painter, writing articles with small lines and details. The Last Supper. One of his earliest paintings, The Arno Valley, painted in 1473, provides excellent descriptions of rivers, mountains, the palace of Montelupo, and farmland.
Among Leonardo's famous drawings, Vitruvian Man, who studies the proportions of the human body, has been used to paint the angel's head in The Louvre's The Virgin of the Rocks, and the plant study of the star of Bethlehem, and the large chalk on black chalk in colored paper. Used for the film Virgin and Child with ST Anna and ST John the Baptist. That he did not make a painting out of it.
Other fine-grained drawings also highlight the study of fabrics. One of the most frequently recreated drawings is of a horrific portrait of Bernardo Baroncelli, painted in Florence in 1479, related to the death of Giuliano, brother of Lorenzo de Medici, who was assassinated in the Passy Conspiracy. With impartial morality, Leonardo registered for Mirror Writing. One of the most frequently recreated drawings is the gruesome portrait of Bernardo Baroncelli, painted in Florence in 1479, depicting the death of Guiliano, brother of Lorenzo de Medici, who was killed in the Passy Conspiracy. With impartial morality, Leonardo registered for Mirror Writing. One of the most frequently recreated drawings is the gruesome portrait of Bernardo Baroncelli, painted in Florence in 1479, depicting the death of Giuliano, brother of Lorenzo de Medici, who was killed in the Passy Conspiracy. With impartial morality, Leonardo registered for Mirror Writing.
The period of the Renaissance Humanities is known as the time when the two poles of science and art were inseparable, and the multifaceted genius of Da Vinci studied science and architecture, which is reflected in his works of art, including notes, drawings, and pages of over 13,000 pages. It is through the philosophy of nature that Leonardo's life, travel, and constant observation of the world around him are the reason for their creation and creation.
Most of Leonardo's writing style was through mirror writing. Sometimes the reason for this may be beyond what we have suggested. Leonardo began to write with his left hand, probably because it was easier to write from right to left.
His notes, the vastness of his thoughts, and the list of things he could find in the grocery store, and the amount of money he could put into it. Studies on the subject include dissection of the body for organ studies, plant studies, rock changes, whirlpools, post-war machines, flying machines, and philosophy.
These notebooks, in fact, were distributed by Leonardo's friends after his death at the Royal Library of the Windsor Palace, at the Biblioteca National de Espana, and at the Victoria & Albert Museum in Vodka. The codex Leicester is Leonardo's proud, scientific work of his own. The codex was acquired by Bill Gates and spread to various cities around the world within a year.
The precise order and orderliness of Leonardo's notes facilitated the intended publication, but many of his other notes, for example, take the heart before the birth of man, on a single sheet, filled with description and picture on a single subject.
Leonardo argues that science is something to be observed: he sought to understand a miracle without the utmost subtlety and theoretical explanations that it exhibits. He went on to study mathematics under Pasioli and produced a very intricate, skeleton-like drawing of a common solid, engraved "for publication in Pasiolia's book, Divinia Proportionion," which was published in Pasioli's book in 1509.
This showed that Leonardo, through his essays, was planning to publish a new, dissertation on something that could be published as a separate one. Urbinas' book, engraved with the drawings of the classical painter Nicholas Poussin, was published in Italy in 1651 and in Germany in 1724. According to Arassa, the dissertation in France was published in 62 editions over a period of fifteen years, and Leonardo became known as "the forerunner of the French academic thought in the arts".
Liyanardeayute, experiments and, as a pure sastriyaparamaya way to svikariccatayirunnu, atineateappamullatum, a sastrakaranenn Leonardo as a result of sampurnamayatumaya observation, his observational and experimental style, in this regard liyanardeaye tricky galiliyeayuteyum, Newton and other sastrakaranmaruteyum, phrijiyeaph Kapra said, was different from the pariksanaritiyil, his philospher, sankalpikasid'dhantikaranavum the arts, marritara peyinrinnukalilum samanvayippiccittunt .
Leonardo's physiology of the human body began with Andrea del Verrocio, who compelled all his students to study physiology. As an artist, Leonardo became a master of topographic physiology, drawing on muscles, tendons and many other anatomy.
As a well-known painter, Leonardoque was allowed to take corpses from the hospitals of Santa Maria Nouveau in Florence and later to hospitals in Milan and Rome. Made drawings and 13,000 notes. All of these papers were left to his successors, and Francesco Melsi scrutinized his studies for publication, but it was not easy, because Leonardo's writing style was unique. In 1632, he did some research on Leonardo's physiology and his work on physiology.But 50 years after Melsey's death, no one tried to finish it. .
Liyanardeayute dreayinnukalil asthikalekuriccum anatomy of man, and its bhagannalekuriccum, and pesikalekuriccum, activity sanketikamaya dreayinnukal snayukkalekuriccum ulppetunnu.addeham of bone, muscle movements, all the science bayeamekkaniksinayi a nisicta anupatattil preayeagikkunnat ennatinekuricc adhunika pravaciccu.liyanardea hrdayatteyum, raktacankramanavyuhatteeyum, pratyulppadanavayavannaleyum and other interior avayavannaleyum, garbhasayattirikkunna janiccittillatta the first manusyakunninre It was drawn to create a scientific drawing, but these lines and notes were far beyond the reach of the minds of the people of the time, but if they had been published, they would certainly have made a huge difference in the field of medicine at the time.
As an artist, Leonardo was intimately acquainted with human emotions, the rewards of age, and the fact that he painted many forms, including the anatomical, and the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical, the anatomical. The skeleton of these animals can be compared to that of a human, and he has also studied a few horses.
During Leonardo's lifetime, he became famous as an architect. In a letter to Ludovico Il Moro, he wrote that they were designing a machine for the defense and siege of their city. He then went to Venice in the 1499s, where he was given an architectural job, and worked as a carpenter to protect the city. Leonardo's constructions include practical and impractical. Leonardo's mechanical knight, hydraulic pumps, reversible crank mechanics, and Leonardo's.
In 1502, he designed a 720-foot-long bridge for the Ottoman Sultan of Constantinople and Beazid II, as part of a civil engineering project. Leonardo was not supported. However, in 2001, his vision was realized in Norway as a result of the construction of a baby bridge designed by Leonardo.
Leonardo's life was most fascinated by the codex for bird flight written in 1505 and his extensive study of flying. Channel 4 on the British Television Station commissioned Leonardo da Vinci's documentary Leonardo da Vinci's Documentary Machines to be released in 2003. Designs for machines such as Leonardo's Parachute and Giant Crossbow were subsequently built and tested, some of which were successful, but others were successful.
During his lifetime, Leonardo's fame was considered to be of great value by Francis I. , Describes the extraordinary intellect, in short, he himself is an extraordinary genius whom we still think of.
The 1568 edition of Giorgio Vasari's Lives of Artist introduces and writes of Leonardo da Vinci.
In the ordinary course of time, man and woman are born with their own extraordinary abilities, but coincidentally with our unique nature, the transcendent physical beauty, the sinless state of the soul, and the ability to fill that person with abundance when he sees another and leaves him. Everyone knows Leonardo da Vinci.
He was later influenced by the painters, critics, and historians of the books he wrote. Baldassare Castiglione, author of Il Cortagio, written in 1528: "... another great painter of the world bows himself before this unique image ..." Written when known as, c. 1540: "Unbelievable, and very rare, his intellect can be described as one of nature's abnormalities ..."
Leonardo's genius was further encouraged when Henry Fuselli wrote about Leonardo in the 19th century in 1801: "As soon as Leonardo cut the decorative flair, the gap between the old virtues widened and modern art emerged: with all the elements of genius ..." . This is reflected in Rio's writing of 1861: "Leonardo rose to prominence above all other artists in the severity and strength of his ability."
Thus, by the 19th century, his notes and essays had become more popular than Leonardo's paintings. Hippolyte wrote in 1866: . "Art historian Bernard Berenson wrote in 1896:" Perhaps Leonardo is a well - educated artist: there are no areas he did not touch, and all of them reach their immortal brilliance, and he's going to study the skeleton's, even if it's just a study of skeletal damage. Applied, and so ended,It has become a means of exchanging the values ​​of life. "
The relevance of Leonardo's genius continues unabated, with experts translating his writings, analyzing images using scientific techniques, and documenting documents that are still being sought today. Liana Bortolone, while writing in 1967, expressed her interest in the field. " Leonardo is right when he says that when he is a genius and a genius, he will have to deal with a lot of domineering, inherently supernatural voices. "
These Renaissance artists are associated with Da Vinci.


This biographical article is a stub. Help develop this.
