The FIFA World Cup 2010 is the 19th FIFA World Cup to be held in South Africa from June 11 to July 11, 2010. For the first time in history, the World Cup will be held in an African country. The tournament is the final stage of the tournament, which began in August 2007 with 204 nations competing in 208 of FIFA's official football teams. This shows that the same number of countries that competed in the 2008 Olympics are competing here.
Iniesta scored a goal in the 26th minute of extra time against the Netherlands in the final of the July 11, 2010 Soccer City in Johannesburg to win the 2010 FIFA World Cup in Spain. This is the first time Spain has won the World Cup.
It was decided that the 2010 World Cup should be on the African continent as per the policy of holding the World Cup in rotation in each confederation. Five African countries participated in the auction to host the 2010 World Cup.
Tunisia withdrew from the auction after FIFA's executive committee ruled that co-hosting should not be allowed. The panel also ruled that Libya should not be considered alone as it did not meet official requirements.
The winner of the auction was announced by FIFA President Sepp Blatter at a press conference in Zurich on 15 May 2004 after the first vote. South Africa, who lost the 2006 World Cup by a narrow margin, now have the opportunity to host Egypt and Morocco.
Rumors that the 2010 World Cup might be moved to another country were circulated in various media during 2006-2007. Some FIFA executives, including Franz Beckenbauer and Horst R, have spoken out about the planning, organization and speed of South Africa's preparations for the World Cup. Others, including Schmidt, expressed concern. But FIFA officials have repeatedly stated their faith in South Africa as hosts. FIFA said another venue had been set up as a precaution in the event of a natural disaster and that the practice had been used at previous World Cups.
The draw for the qualifiers took place on November 25, 2007 in Durban, South Africa. 32 teams are competing in this tournament. As a host nation, South Africa qualified directly for the tournament. All other teams qualified through qualifying matches. In all previous World Cups, the current winners have qualified directly, but this time the 2006 winners, Italy, also qualified after the qualifiers.
There was some controversy during the qualifying matches. In the second quarter play-off match between France and the Republic of Ireland, the French captain Thierry Henry hit the ball with his hand and it led to the goal and France qualified. This incident caused a lot of controversy and controversy. FIFA rejects Ireland Football Association's request to resume match Ireland later withdrew their application to become the 33rd World Cup contender.
The following are the 32 teams participating in the tournament.




 
In 2005, the organizers selected 12 cities for the World Cup venues: Bloomfontein, Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, Kimberley, Nelsprut, Orkney, Polokwain, Port Elizabeth, Pretoria and Rustenburg. FIFA later reduced it to 10 on March 17, 2006.

All the time at South African Standard Time‌
Abbreviations:
The top two teams will qualify for the pre-quarters.
The following criteria are used by FIFA to select the winners of the group stage of World Cup tournaments:









Forlán 51 ' 
This football-related article is a stub. Help develop this.
