Aithihyamala is a collection of all the popular legends of Kerala written in eight parts by Shankunni at the palace over a period of 25 years. This book is useful for literary students, history students and researchers alike. In its introduction to the legend, Ambalappuzha Rama Varma described it as the ocean of stories in Malayalam.
In this book, all the stories that were prevalent in Malayalam history, mythology and folklore at that time are presented in 126 articles. The descriptions in the legend are interesting to even the youngest children. Yet history in mythology, beyond mere fiction, is intertwined, albeit without sufficient evidence. This book is still an indispensable reference for students of history in the Kerala society, which was generally devoid of historical writing.
Mythology has played a vital role in bringing mythology to the masses, which was confined to the scholarly community and the rhetoric of the Adyak clan. It is through this work that many of the characters who later took root in Malayalam first appeared in writing. Perhaps if there were no legends, the said Panthirukula and the 'Panthiru' heroes of that clan would not be so famous in Kerala. Similarly, the heroes like 'Kadamattathu Kathanar', 'Kayamkulam Kochunny', 'Kulappurathu Bheeman' and 'Pazhoor Padippura', 'Kallur Mana' and 'Pandanpurathe Uppumanga' became familiar to the Malayalees locally.

In connection with the activities of newspapers like Malayalamanorama and Bhashaposhini, Varghese Mappila of Kandathil and Shankunni of the palace used to meet with their friends at the Manorama office every evening. On those occasions, Shankunni used to quote many legends and historical stories while telling his pastimes. Gradually, Shankunni's storytelling became an integral part of these audiences. Accordingly, Shankunni began to write such legends. The first article in the legend, 'Parayi Petta Panthirukulam' was printed in the 1073 Kumbham-Meenam-Medam edition of Bhashaposhini Quarterly.
While preparing for the periodicals, Varghese Mappila lamented that the full text of such stories could not be incorporated into those articles. Accordingly, Shankunni began to write and compile later essays more seriously. However, after the untimely death of Varghese Mappila, with total despair, he stopped writing the epic.
In the month of Makara, 1084 BC, Vellaikkal Narayana Menon, the manager of the magazine 'Lakshmibai', asked Shankunni for permission to add the epic as a book to his 'Lakshmibai bibliography'. Shankunni gladly agreed and sent the 21 stories that had been prepared so far.
Soon after, 'Lakshmibai' magazine was shut down and the Mangalodayam printing press company in Thrissur took over the subsequent release of Aithihyamala. They were the publishers of the legend until Mangalodayam died in 1973.
Completed in a total of eight parts, this magnificent collection was taken over by the 'Palace Shankunni Memorial Committee' in 1974 and republished in two parts. The distribution was National Books. From 1978 onwards, the book 'Current Books' continued to be published as a single volume for the committee.
More than two lakh copies of the epic have been printed since 1974 alone.
Among the Malayalam books, there are only a few books which have received the highest number of copies through so many editions.
Below are parts of the legend and the year it was first published. 
Book 1
Book 2
Book 3
Book 4
Book 5
Book 6
Book 7
Book 8 

An English translation of Mathrubhumi Books' Aithhyamala, Aithihyamala, The Great Legends of Kerala, was released in April 2010. Published in two volumes, the book is translated by Sreekumari Ramachandran.
