April Love is a painting by Arthur Hughes, a pre - Raphaelite painter from 1855 to 1856. Tennyson's poem "The Miller's Daughter" is used as the source for the painting.
This image, taken by William Morris, was purchased by Tate Gallery in London in 1909 and remains in the Tate Collection today. 
This film highlights the different pre-raffle style that finds a soft approach to nature and women. Emphasizes bright colors and red-haired women as well as the importance of nature and symbolism. It is seen as a response to industrialization in the late 1800s.
This painting depicts a moment of emotional crisis for a young couple. The male form is rarely visible. The young man's head is depicted leaning to the left of the young woman. The woman is looking down at the fallen flowers. Indicates the end of spring and early youth. The main iconic figure was Tryphina Ford, whom Hughes married in 1855.
The Pre-Raphaelite Brothers was an association of English painters, poets, and artists founded in 1848 by William Holman Hunt, John Everett Miles, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. The pre-rafflelight style is a style developed by its artists. Inspired by Rosetti in the Middle Ages, the style was later extended to artists such as Edward Burn-Jones and twentieth-century John William Waterhouse. April Love is filmed in a pre-Raphaelite style.
Arthur Hughes was an English commentator and illustrator associated with the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. In 1855, Hughes married Trifena Ford. Trifena was the model for the April Love movie. Hughes died in 1915 in Que Green, London. Most of the old houses in the queue are built around the green. Queue Green is built on the east side of Queue Road, overlooking Queue Garden.
His contributions include more than 700 paintings and drawings and 750 books. After the death of Trifena Hughes in 1921, their daughter Emily had to move into a small house. As a result, due to lack of space, their father's remaining preparation sketches, personal documents, and writings had to be destroyed. He was the father of the English painter Arthur Forward Hughes and the uncle of Edward Robert Hughes. Hughes was buried in Richmond Cemetery.
His most famous films are April Love and The Long Engagement. Both of them depict like-minded couples who are full of love and beauty. Although John Everett Miles' earlier film "Couple" was the inspiration for the film, it emphasizes the mentality of humanity that young people are unable to sustain the novelty of nature rather than realizing the glory of nature that renews youth.
