Dhara is one of the most effective Ayurvedic treatments practiced in Kerala since ancient times. It is also used in many substances such as takram, ointment, ghee, cow's milk, broth, green water, vinegar and tincture. The stream is called "Murdhadhara" when done on the head, "Sarvangadhara" when done all over the body, and "Ekangadhara" when done on a particular part of the body. It comes in the form of pre-karmic distillation of the five karmas of vomiting, diarrhea, nasal congestion, nausea and vomiting.
Any stream requires tools such as pots, pans, and pots.
It is destined to be made of devataram, charalam, koovalam, venga and plav, but is usually made by the male with wormwood or plav. It is now also made of fiber. The ledge should be four cubits long and one cubit wide. The head should be raised slightly to the head and a hole should be made in the back so that the fluid binds to the ground. There should be a hole in the foot for fluid to flow through. You need to hold the four corners to take the path.
Dharachatti is as important as Dharappathi. Clay pots are the best for the stream. It is said that earthenware pots are best because they can be damaged when placed in metal containers. It should be four inches in size and have the shape of a frying pan. Make a hole in the middle of the pan so that the little finger can pass through. Tie the twine to a four-finger-long stick, take it through the eye of a spiral and pull it out through the hole in the pan. It can be lowered and raised as required with a strong rope.
Takradhara is a stream made by adding gooseberry tincture to the juice. Takradhara is the most popular form of head streaming today.
Cow's milk is commonly used for lactation. Before heating the skimmed milk, the diseased camphor, gourd and chuck can be stirred separately or all together.
Sothanyadhara is a stream made with breast milk. After three months of childbirth, the pure breast milk of a sick woman should be powdered and mixed with any mixture like camphor, gourd, saffron etc.
The four types of ointments, ointment, marrow, vasa and ghritam, can be used individually or in combination. Used love should not be used again the next day. It is better that the love for the stream changes then.
This Ayurvedic article is a stub. Help develop this.
