Srisubramanyaswamy Maha Temple is located in the town of Harippad in Alappuzha district and is one of the oldest temples in Kerala. The main deity of the temple is Chaturbahu Sreesubrahmanyaswamy. The deities are also worshiped as Ganapati, Dakshinamoorthy, Sri Krishna, Ayyappan, Naga deities, Kurutikaman, Panchameedevi and Yakshiyamma. Known as 'Kerala Palani / South Palani', this temple is the largest Subramanyaswamy temple in Kerala. This is one of the seven great temples in the old Travancore region. The temple is under the Travancore Devaswom Board and has many features such as the largest idol of Subramanya in Kerala, the Saiva-Vaishnava deity, the largest golden flagpole in Kerala and the three flag festivals.
There is a story related to the origin of Harippad Subramanyaswamy Temple. In the past, the place was known as 'Ekachakram'. A Subramanyaswamy temple was owned by the local authorities. Its name was 'Thrikkovil Temple'. The authorities decided to build a great temple near it and enshrine Ayyappaswamy there. They hired skilled workers for it. Thus, after months of hard work, the construction of the temple was completed. Even Vishwakarma, the sculptor of the deity, was amazed to see a beautiful temple with five walls. The day for the dedication was also fixed there.
Then one day all the officials had a dream at the same time. According to the divine vision, an idol suitable for installation in the great temple built by them is lying on the water in the Kayamkulam lake. He said that this was the idol of Chaturbahu Subramanya, who had been worshiped by Parasurama in the past and that he should go out immediately to pick it up. Then everyone came to Kayamkulam with great enthusiasm to touch the idol. There they found the idol when they went down to the place where they saw the whirlpool and the flowers of worship in the lake. Then they took it and took it to the nearest quay. The idol was then carried on a single wheel in a procession through the Payipattat.
The idol was then taken to the new temple and installed with all sorts of rituals. It is said that at that time a deity appeared there and he performed the anointing of life and that the deity was actually Parasurama. Thus, the place where Parasurama, the incarnation of Srihari, i.e. Lord Vishnu, landed was known as 'Haripadapuram' and over time as 'Haripad'. The dedication was at noon on the full moon day of Karthika star in a month of Scorpio. So even today that day is very important in the temple.
Harippad Temple, the largest Subramanyaswamy Temple in Kerala, is located in the heart of the city of Harippad, half a kilometer north of the National Highway. Harippad Police Station, Karthikapally Taluk Office, Municipal Office, Govt. The school and various debtors stand around the temple. The view of the temple is to the east. The temple has a huge wall covering an area of ​​about eight acres. A large elephant wall is built around the temple. It has towers on all four sides, but they are unattractive. They are not suitable for the temple's aesthetics. A short distance from the east tower, you can see the beautiful entrance with the name of the temple inscribed on it. It was plated in 2015 and plated with gold. You can reach the temple courtyard by walking a short distance through it. . As usual, there is a tree in front of the temple. According to Hindu mythology, Brahma resides at the top of the sacred tree Arayal, Vishnu at the center and Shiva at the bottom. That is, the waist becomes a trinity. It is considered sacred to keep the waist seven times in the morning every day. The east tower of the temple is located near Arayal. It is a relatively small tower. There is only one floor. However, this tower has a large elephant door. Attempts are being made to cover the wooden elephant with brass and gold. The stage of the temple is adjacent to the tower. There is also an auditorium near the temple. Art events are held here during the holidays. The east tower of the temple is located near Arayal. It is a relatively small tower. There is only one floor. However, this tower has a large elephant door. Attempts are being made to cover the wooden elephant with brass and gold. The stage of the temple is adjacent to the tower. There is also an auditorium near the temple. Art events are held here during the holidays. The east tower of the temple is located near Arayal. It is a relatively small tower. There is only one floor. However, this tower has a large elephant door. Attempts are now being made to gild the wooden elephant with a brass covering. The stage of the temple is adjacent to the tower. There is also an auditorium near the temple. Art events are held here during the holidays.
On the south-eastern side of the temple is a pool of medium size. This pool is also known as 'Velakulam'. Velakali is a ritual performed during the festivals in the temples of the Travancore region. It comes in many forms. One of them is ‘work in the pool’. During the festival at the Harippad temple, work is done on this pond on the south-eastern side. That is why it is known as 'Velakulam'. The roads on the south and west sides of the temple lead to the National Highway. To the north is the vast main temple pool. Known as 'Perumkulam', this pool is one of the largest temple pools in Kerala. The temple is spread over an area of ​​5 acres and is visited by devotees and devotees. The Devaswom Elephant Sanctuary is located on the north bank of Perumkulam. On the south side you can see another arayal tree. Below this is the presence of the serpent gods. There is a stone pavilion near here. In the past, when the Math Swamiyar visited the temple in the middle of Thrissur, it was built for him to sit on. The only person who has the right to interfere in the affairs of the temple is the Math Swami in the middle. He even has the right to perform pooja on holidays! There is another temple on the east bank of the pond. The deities in this temple are Anjaneyaswamy and Navagraha. Although the temple is not very old, the presence of Anjaneyaswamy, one of the Saptachiranjivis, is not much visited by the devotees who visit Harippad. Navagrahas with wives are another specialty. It is the only temple in Kerala that has Navagrahas with consorts. The Harippad Group Office of the Travancore Devaswom Board is located near this temple.
A small temple can be seen on the south side of the road just before reaching the temple courtyard. This is the 'Keezhthrikovil', the headquarters of the temple. This is a very small temple. The sanctum sanctorum, the mandapa and the Pradakshina Vazhi are the only places here. The shrine is fairly large. It is a two storied square shrine. The Keezhthrikovil temple is dedicated to Balasubramanyaswamy, who has two arms. The vision is to the east. The temple, which was in a dilapidated condition for a long time, was renovated in 2015. The flag is also flown here during the festival. The flag is flown here on the third day. Since there is no permanent flagpole here, it is customary to bring temporary timber and install it. Preparations are now underway to erect a permanent flagpole.
Entering through the east tower, you first come across a large elephant. It is a medium sized elephant. Choroon, Thulabharam and Bhajans are performed in this elephant enclosure. There is a facility here to keep the Aranas up and running. Koothambalam is built on the south side of the elephant enclosure. Harippad is the second largest Koothambalam in Kerala after the Vadakkunnatha Temple and Koodalmanikyam Temple in Thrissur. Koothu and Koodiyattam are also celebrated here during the holidays. Elephants and Koothampalas are rich in sculptural skill. Scenes from works like Skanda Purana, Srimad Bhagavatam, Ramayana and Mahabharata are beautifully depicted here. Goddess Durga with sixteen arms, Subramanyaswamy with six faces, Krishna Leelas, Hanuman jumping into Lanka is also of special importance. Yakshi lives on a pillar inside Koothambalam. This deity is worshiped as a deity in the temple.
Outside the elephant enclosure is the tallest golden flagpole in Kerala, which bears the head of a peacock. The flagpole is about 700 feet high. The flagpole, which once survived a fire in the temple, was later re-erected! The altar is beyond the flagpole. The main stone of the temple is located here. It is a good-sized altar stone. Therefore, the idol cannot be seen from the outside. This gold-plated altar, encrusted with brass, is about ten feet high, including the pedestal. Sacrifice is done from the ladder. Above the entrance of the altar, you can see the image of Subramanyaswamy, the peacock vehicle.
Inside the temple walls, you can see a small shrine with a closed roundabout at the south-east corner. The shrine is dedicated to Lord Krishna. This shrine is also known as the 'Thiruvambadi Temple'. The concept is dedicated to Goshala Krishna. Therefore, the closed orbit is imagined as a cowshed. The idol of the Lord, facing west, is in the form of a cane and a flute in both hands. The flag is also flown here during the festival. The flag is flown here for the fifth festival. Since there is no permanent flagpole here, it is customary to bring temporary timber and install it. Preparations are now underway to erect a permanent flagpole. There is another small shrine facing east in the southwest corner. The temple is dedicated to Ayyappaswamy. The idol of Ayyappan here is the same as in Sabarimala. There is a faade in front of the shrine. This is where the Sabarimala pilgrims place their necklaces and necklaces. The idols of the serpent gods are a bit different from here. These deities include the entourage of Vasuki, Nagayakshi, Nagakanyaka and Nagachamundi as Naga kings.
Many trees can be seen growing inside the temple walls. In 2013, a star forest was built here under the leadership of Harippad Devaswom. Also known as the 'Saravanabhava Star Forest', the trees of all the 27 stars are reverently worshiped in this star forest. On the west side of the temple, on either side of the tower, you can see the old Pathayapura Malika and the religious centers. The two-storied Pathayapura temple evokes the past glory. On the north side, you can see the temple Vaka Oottupura. This is a fairly large Oottupura. In the past, there were regular outings here. Today it is fed only on holidays. The famous peacock nest is located in the northeast. Peacocks are worshiped by devotees at the temple. However, this hive is now empty. The peacock that was here earlier died on October 18, 2017. Kerala Varma Valiya Koithampuran, who was also a native of Harippad, wrote the famous poem 'Mayurasandesham' inspired by the peacock here. Sreekumaran Thampi, another Haripattu singer, has also written songs about this peacock.
The temple is housed in a copper-plated, unusually large Vattasreekovil. The shrine is made of granite and has a circumference of about 150 feet. It has a golden dome on its roof. The sanctum sanctorum is the second room inside the shrine. Subramanyaswamy resides in the Chaturbahu idol, which is more than six feet high, facing east. The deity is considered to be the supreme deity Devasenapati. This is the largest idol of Subramanya in Kerala. However, it is not possible to confirm that the idol belonged to Subramanian. This is because of the conical wheels on the back, the forearm on the left arm, the right shoulder blade, and the left shoulder on the trident. The garment is tied to a trident. In addition, there is a crescent moon on the head. The reason for this is said to be that the first concept was of Lord Vishnu. 'Hari' is a synonym of Lord Vishnu as 'Harippad'. Existing reinforces this argument. During the Saiva-Vaishnava conflict, the temple was captured by the Vaishnavism, and the conch wheels of the idol were hidden and the gopikuri and ornaments were removed. Subsequently, a third eye and ashes were artificially inserted into the idol, the gold crown was replaced with a crown and a trident was attached to the idol. Later teenagers removed the trident from the idol and attached the veil. The third eye was removed from the forehead. The story goes like this. The end of the story is that the three of them started putting it all together to satisfy the three of them anyway. Based on these concepts, three festivals were started and are still held in the temple. The Vishu-Pathamudayam festival in the month of May represents Subramanian, the Onam festival in the month of Chingam represents Vishnu and the Thiruvatira festival in the month of Dhanu represents Lord Shiva. However, the festival in the month of May is important as it is important for the sublime. Subrahmanyaswamy, the son of Lord Shiva and the Commander-in-Chief of Lord Shiva, who has captivated all the glories of the cosmic nature, reigns supreme in Srilakath.
The shrine is adorned with beautiful murals and wood carvings. Countless myths, including Subramanya stories and Dashavataras, have been reborn here in pictorial and sculptural forms. Dakshinamoorthy and Ganapati, the idols of Lord Shiva, reside facing south on the south side of the temple. Dakshinamoorthy and Ganapati are generally worshiped together in temples in Kerala. Most of them are in South Kerala. Dakshinamoorthy is usually found in Shiva temples. Dakshinamoorthy, the sacred form of Lord Shiva, is considered to be another symbol of the presence of Lord Shiva in Harippad. The idol of Lord Ganesha is on the right side of Dakshinamoorthy. Dakshinamoorthy has a small Shiva lingam. The idol of Lord Ganesha is as usual. On the north side, there is an oasis with a valley face. The water and milk anointed by the Lord flow through it.
Nalambalam is built around the shrine. The quarters here are huge. Doors can be seen on either side of the entrance. Homas, including the Ganapati Homa, are performed at the south gate. The orchestras are held at the north entrance. Thidappally is located in the south-east corner and a well is built in the north-east corner. These are just some of the goal setting shareware that you can use.
The inner altar is built around the shrine. Sacrifice stones representing the Ashtadikpalas, the Saptamatris, Veerabhadra, Ganapati, Sastav, Subrahmanyan, Brahma, Durga Devi, Ananthan and Nirmalyadhari can be seen here. Sacrifices are believed to be the sentiments of God. Therefore, do not step on them or touch them.
There is a rectangular prayer hall in front of the shrine. This is a huge hall. The sixteen-foot hall has a capacity of about five hundred bowls for worship. The roof of the hall is made of copper. Above is the Golden Dome. At one end of it, you can see a sculpture of a peacock carrying the Bhagavad Gita. The peacock should be caged. At the edge of the mandapam, there are images of Brahma and Ashtadikpalas, and on the pillars, there are images of deities. Kalasapooja is performed here during the festival season.
Harippad Subramanyaswamy Temple is a great temple with five daily poojas and three shivelis. The walk opens at 4 p.m. The first is the Nirmalyadarshana, which is based on the previous day's costumes. After cleansing, the idol is anointed with oil, water, and dust. The idol is decorated after the anointing. The next function is the flower offering. By then it will be five o'clock. Usha Pooja is held after the flower offering. It has a closing pooja. Neypayasa and white offerings are the offerings of the Lord at this time. Then Etirettu Pooja at sunrise. It is a pooja in which offerings are made to the deities. At the same time, the Mahaganapati Homa of the temple took place. The meet-and-greet begins at 6:30 p.m. The meaning behind Shiveli is that the Lord directly sees the offering to His demons. Melshanthi with water fragrant flowers and Keershanthi with Subramanyaswamy's body are coming out of the shrine. The altar of peace is hung on each altar in the inner altar. The shrine is surrounded by Ashtadikpalas, Saptamatris, Ganapati, Veerabhadra, Nirmalyadhari, Sastav, Ananthan, Durga, Brahma and Subramanian in the form of sacrificial stones. After exiting, it is circled three times along the orbit and hung on the outer altars. Then he goes back to the big altar. After Shiveli, it is anointed with milk, young water, rose water, turmeric, saffron and ashes. The "Navakabhishekam" is the ceremony of filling the nine silver pots with holy water, worshiping them in the mandapam and anointing the idol. Harippad Temple is one of the few temples where this is done on a daily basis. The Pantheeradi Pooja will be held at 8 pm. Pantheeradi Pooja is a pooja performed when the shadow is twelve feet long. The anointing of the Panchagavya begins at 10 am after the Pantheeradi Pooja. Panchagavyam is made by mixing milk, ghee, cow dung, cow urine and yoghurt in certain proportions. It is also seldom anointed daily in some temples. Then the noon pooja starts at half past ten. There is also a closing pooja for this. Tulapayasam, the main offering, is offered at this time. After noon pooja at half past eleven. The noon ritual has the same ceremonies as the encounter ritual. The walk takes place after noon at noon. Panchagavyam is made by mixing cow urine and yoghurt in certain proportions. It is also seldom anointed daily in some temples. Then the noon pooja starts at half past ten. There is also a closing pooja for this. Tulapayasam, the main offering, is offered at this time. After noon pooja at half past eleven. The noon ritual has the same ceremonies as the encounter ritual. The walk takes place after noon at noon. Panchagavyam is made by mixing cow urine and yoghurt in certain proportions. It is also seldom anointed daily in some temples. Then the noon pooja starts at half past ten. There is also a closing pooja for this. Tulapayasam, the main offering, is offered at this time. After noon pooja at half past eleven. The noon ritual has the same ceremonies as the encounter ritual. The walk takes place after noon at noon.
The walk reopens at 4 p.m. In the evening, the candlelight vigil is held at sunset. Then dinner is served at 7.30 pm. There is also a closing pooja for this. The offerings are milk pudding and bread .. followed by dinner at 8.30 am. It has the same rituals as the Etirettu Shiveli and the Uchha Shiveli. After dinner we walk again at nine o'clock at night.
There are two tantrics in the temple. They come from the families Pullamvazhi in the west and Pullamvazhi in the east. Tantri Pooja is performed here every day. Pottimarth Pottimar from Pullur Gram Sabha near Neeleswaram in Kasaragod district has the upper hand. Keershanthimar Devaswom is the appointment.
The main offerings are Idichupinjina Payasa, Thulapayasa and Panchamrit. Also, anointing and garlanding are important.
The temple is located 1.5 km northwest of the Harippad bus stand. The temple is located at a distance of 1.5 km from the Harippad railway station. It is located at a distance of 115 km from Kochi International Airport and 125 km from Thiruvananthapuram International Airport.
This article about a Hindu temple is a stub. Help develop this.
