Chakkulathukavu Shree Bhagwati Temple is a temple located on the banks of the river Thalavady in Alappuzha district. The main deity is Adiparasakthi. East-facing view of the forest fort concept. In Kerala, this great man is known as Chakkulathamma. The deity is Bhagwati with eight arms. The temple is dedicated to Lord Ganesha, Lord Shiva, Lord Subramanian, Lord Hanuman, Lord Vishnu, Lord Sastav, Lord Navagraha and Goddess Yakshi.
The famous Karthika Pongala is held here on the third day of the month of Scorpio. Pongala is a Dravidian ritual performed in front of the Goddess Annapoorneshwari for the pleasure of women. There are also ceremonies such as the Karthika Pillar on the same day, Lakshadweep, the Nari Puja on the 30th Friday of the month of Dhanu, the invocation prayer and the Pledge of Allegiance. The temple is popularly known as the 'Sabarimala of women' in central Travancore. The temple is located at the confluence of the Pampana and Manimalayar rivers on the border of Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts.
Parasakthi conducts weeding and singing here every year. The festival of Sagittarius from one to twelve is known as the "Twelfth Noyam Festival".
Chakkulathukavu is also a place of liberation for alcoholics. Prayers will be held on the first Friday of every Malayalam month. It is on this occasion that the alcohol-free vow is made.
Twelfth Noyam is a fasting ritual here. Sagittarius begins on the 1st and ends on the 12th. The Navratri festival and the commencement of education are special here.
A hunter who went to cut wood in the forest cut down the snake that came to carve. But it is not dead. Later, when he saw the same snake on the top of a pond, the hunter attacked it again. But this time the putt broke and there was a flood. A monk appeared in front of the astonished hunter and comforted him. At the same time, the hunter's family arrived. The monk told them that the flow of water would end when the water became a mixture of milk and honey. He told them that the primordial power in Putin was the water that had submerged them and that if they broke the putt, they would see an idol. The sage took out the idol and said that if it is worshiped as a forest fort, all prosperity will come. With that he disappeared.
The hunter had a dream that the real Naradamuni appeared as a monk that night. Legend has it that the idol resides in Chakkulathukavu. From then on, the hunter and his family started living in the same forest. They used to go to the forest every day, collect firewood and food and cook in pots. They ate after giving a portion of the food they made to Goddess Durga. One day they could not gather food and arrive on time. At that time, they were worried that Bhagwati could not be fed. But when they went to the tree for cooking, the hunter and his family saw a pot full of rice, curries and fruits. Realizing that the food items had reached there by the grace of God, they chanted Devi mantras loudly with devotion. At the same time there was an unnatural. It was:
Millions of people perform Pongala at Chakkulam Kavil to renew this memory. It is believed that when devotees perform Pongala for their mother, her mother will be one of them.
The temple is located in the middle of the village of Neerettupuram. The temple faces east.
The Kartikasthambha is the physical symbol of wickedness and evil. It is believed that the fire swallows the evil and dominates the good through the ritual of burning it to ashes. This ceremony is held on the auspicious day of the month of Scorpio. On a high pillar, bananas, old olas, firecrackers, and one-year-old robes of the goddess are wrapped around it, invoking all the evils of the land. It will burn before the candlelight vigil. It is believed that this will end all the sins of the country.
Naripooja is one of the most notable rituals in Chakkulathukavu. On that day, famous women of India are invited as guests to perform Nari Pooja here.
The women are seated on an ornate pedestal and the priest reverently worships them in the form of a fort. The meaning of such a pooja is the idea that the goddesses rejoice where women are respected and the tantric concept that women should be worshiped as a form of power. Shakti worshiped Mahadevi from the concept that woman is the basis of creation. According to this belief, this is the Shakteya Pooja in which women are worshiped as a symbol of the primordial power of the Mother of the World.  
Chakkulathukavu Bhagwati Temple is located at a distance of 12 km from the city of Thiruvalla on the MC Road. You can also get off at the Thiruvalla / Harippad railway station.
